Chapter 0. Dragonmount.






Dragonmount is the prologue chapter of The Eye of the World and takes place almost 4000 years before the next chapter in the book.


Point of view: Lews Therin Telamon, Narrator.


Lews Therin Telamon wanders through his nearly destroyed palace, looking for his wife Ilyena Therin Moerelle. Dead men, women, and children lie everywhere, but the taint on siedeen has driven Lews Therin insane and he does not notice his surroundings. Ishamael appears, having Traveled there, approaches Lews Therin saying "I have come for you." Lews Therin does not recognize him, and Ishamael realizes he is mad.  





Ishamael identifies himself as having once been Elan Morin Tedronai, and Lews Therin manages to recognize him as Betrayer of Hope. Ishamael says that after today people will call Lews Therin Kinslayer as well as Dragon. He goes on to say that Lews Therin was once first among the Servants, and other things, and that he is now greater in power than Lews Therin and won't let him die without realizing that. He Heals Lews Therin of his madness, who screams in pain.

As the pain recedes, Lews Therin comes to his senses. He sees Ilyena's body and is consumed with sorrow. Ishamael says that the Great Lord of the Dark can bring her back, and Lews Therin turns to him with murderous intent. He says he will have revenge for Ilyena's death, but Ishamael asks him to cast his mind back, to remember the Dark One's counterstroke against siedeen. Ishamael says the Hundred Companions are tearing the world apart, and more men join them every day. He tells Lews Therin to remember who it was who killed all of his friends and family.

Lews Therin remembers the deeds, and howls in torment as he looks at his surroundings. Unable to bear his shame, he Travels to a flat, empty land beside a river. He can feel the taint on siedeen, and cries out for forgiveness as he channels more and more. A bolt of fire comes down from the sky, burning through him and the earth below him, sending lava spouting upwards to form a mountain. The river has been redirected in an arc around the mountain, with an island in the middle. Ishamael appears on the island, and vows that all is not yet over between him and the Dragon.





Chapter 1. An Empty Road.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand al'Thor and his father, Tam al'Thor, are traveling in the Westwood via the Quarry Road to Emmond's Field. Their mare Behla is hauling a cart with casks of apple brandy and cider, which Tam has promised Winespring Inn he will bring for Bel Tine the next day. 





With the winter being so hard and long, wolves and bears had been attacking people and animals, so both Rand and Tam are watchful of their surroundings. Rand looks behind them, and sees a Myrddraal on a black horse following. Rand stumbles, breaking his stare with the Fade, and tells Tam there is a stranger following them. They stop, look behind them, but the Myrddraal is no longer there. Rand wonders if it was a figment of his imagination, and they continue on. 





They enter Emmond's Field, where they are stopped by Wit Congar. He starts complaining about the new Wisdom, Nine'eev al'Meera, until his wife, Daise Congar, arrives and admonishes him for talking about Women's Circle business. Rand and Tam quickly continue to the Winespring Inn. As they stroll through the village, they notice preparations for Bel Tine happening all around them..

Reaching the Winespring Inn, Brandelwyn al'Veer, the owner of the Inn and the Mayor of Emmond's Field, comes out to greet them. He and Tam are chatting about the odd winter when Cenn Booie arrives to add his negative comments on the matter.

As the conversation goes on, Matrim Cauthon tugs on Rand's sleeve and tells him that he and Dav Ayellin have caught a badger. They plan to release it on the Green to watch the girls scream. Rand replies that he needs to help carry the casks and barrels into the inn.

Mat mentions strangers in the village, and Rand describes the Myrddraal. Mat admits he saw one three days before, and how scared he was with it just staring at him. Mat's father Abell Cauthon also didn't believe there was anything there, though Mat thinks people would have to believe him now with Rand backing what he saw.

Mat is spotted by Tam, who recruits him to help get the casks inside. Tam mentions that there is a gleeman at the inn, prompting Bran to share how the man had arrived in the middle of the night, waking everyone up. Cenn then accidentally reveals that there will be fireworks as well. When Bran confronts him about his loose lips, Cenn quickly ducks into the inn. Tam points out that they need to unload the cart, and the others begin carrying the casks into the inn.





Chapter 2. Strangers.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand and Mat unload the first barrels and enter the common room of the inn, to find not only Tam and Bran, but Cenn Booie and Haral Luhhan present. Master Luhhan frowns at Mat. Mistress al'Veer brings out some food, and says the boys can get something to eat in the kitchen when they're done. In the cellar, Mat tells Rand that Master Luhhan is mad at him, and explains that he played a prank on Adan al'Caar, Ewin Finngar, and Dag Coplin using two of Master Luhhan's dogs, and his joke ended up getting flour all over the Luhhan house. 
When they pass back through the common room to continue unloading, Rowan Hurn and Samel Crawe have arrived, and Tam is speaking quietly and intently to the now complete Village Council. They unload the rest of the barrels while eating honeycakes. Just as Mat is about to take Rand to see the gleeman, Ewin Finngar arrives and says there are strangers in the village - not a man in black, but a women in blue and a man in a cloak that shifts colors. Mat says that they were the ones he'd started to tell Rand about earlier; they'd arrived the evening before and taken rooms at the inn. Ewin interjects that their names are Mworane and LAN. Ewin says that Nine'eev doesn't like Mworane, because she called Nine'eev "child." Mworane has been asking questions about how old people are and how long they've lived where they have. 





Mat again mentions the gleeman and Ewin is skeptical. They go back through the common room, where the Village Council is still huddled together talking quietly, and on outside. Mat asks Rand to back up his story about the dark rider, but he suddenly gets the feeling he's being watched. He looks around, but only sees a raven sitting on the inn roof. Mat and Rand, both angry at the bird staring at them, throw rocks, but the raven dodges, to their surprise.

A woman's voice from behind them describes the raven as a "vile bird" and it flies away. The boys turn to see a woman who can only be Mworane. She looks like nobody Rand has ever seen, and he can't pin down her age. He notices the Great Serpent ring on her hand. They greet her as "Lady Mworane," but she insists that they call her just Mworane.

She says she may have some small tasks to be done while she is in Emmond's Field, asking the boys if they might be willing to assist her. Mworane gives each of the boys a silver penny in return for their promise. She says that later they must tell her all about them. Rand asks why she came to Emmond's Field, and she says she is a collector of old stories. They wonder aloud what stories there might be in the Two Rivers, but she says that men wear different faces as the Wheel of Time turns, and nobody can see the whole Pattern. The boys are tongue-tied; she says they will talk later, and walks away.

As she does, a man who had been standing unnoticed nearby now moves to follow her. The tall man in the color-shifting cloak gives each of the boys an appraising look as he walks past. Ewin says that is LAN, and that he's probably a Warder. Mat scoffs, saying that Warders have jeweled armor and fight Trollocs in the Great Blight.

With the strangers gone, they finally look at their coins; Ewin is ecstatic to find his is a 'whole silver penny.' Rand and Mat have been given a silver coin also, but theirs is different; it is fat and bears the image of a woman balancing a flame on her upturned hand. The coins are worth more than the boys have ever had before, enough to buy a good horse, Rand thinks, but they resolve not to spend them.

Hearing shouts, they look up to see a crowd of villagers accompanying the peddler's wagon towards the Wagon Bridge.





Chapter 3. The Peddler.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


The peddler's wagon crosses the Wagon Bridge and stops by the Winespring Inn. The members of the Village Council emerge from the inn and wait with the crowd while the peddler, Padan Fain, busies himself with his wagon. Rand and Mat push through the crowd to stand close behind the men of the Council, and are soon joined by their friend Pairin Eyebarra. After tantalizing the gathered crowd for a sufficient amount of time, Fain finally gets up to speak. 





He states that though the people of Emmond's Field may feel they've lived through a harsh winter, the rest of the world has had as bad if not worse. He tells of war rising in Ghealdan, with a man claiming to be the Dragon Reborn at its heart. The crowd cries out at this, the third occurrence of a False Dragon in five years, and Cenn Booie crankily wonders if this truly is a false Dragon. Fain can't speak to that, but does say that the man can wield the One Power.

Ewin Finngar points out that only women can safely touch the True Source, and nearly gets a cuff from Booie as a reward. Fain then says that Eyes Sedai have already been dispatched from Tar Vawlyn to attempt to capture the man. The Mayor then asks the peddler to go inside the inn so that the Village Council can ask additional questions in private.

After the peddler and the council disappear into the inn, the crowd slowly disperses with the exception of a few of the younger folk.    
Rand, Mat, and Pairin ponder the news. Mat says he heard a story from a merchant's guard that the Dragon would be reborn in mankind's greatest hour of need, but Rand and Pairin are skeptical. Just as the trio are finishing a discussion about whether all Eyes Sedai are Darkfriends, Nine'eev al'Meera, the village Wisdom comes by and reprimands Mat for his loose talk about Bili Congar.

Eventually, Rand notices that Igwayne al'Veer arrived just behind Nine'eev. After telling Rand to quit staring at Igwayne, Nine'eev asks why the group had been talking about something they should not have been, and Rand relays Padan Fain's news. Stating that only the Women's Circle will find out anything useful from Fain, the Wisdom leaves the group and enters the inn.

Rand and Igwayne get a chance to talk alone, and Rand asks her if she'll dance with him on Bel Tine. She says she will in the afternoon, but she will be busy in the morning—she's been permitted to braid her hair for the first time, meaning she is of marriageable age—dancing the Pole. When Rand marks this change, he objects that not everyone of age to marry should. The two get in a bit of a tiff when Rand laughs at Igwayne's comment that she might become a Wisdom. Many villages want a Wisdom that is not from their own town, and Igwayne wants to see the places found in stories. 





At this point, Mat and Pairin come over and say that Pairin has also seen the black rider. Igwayne, overhearing, claims none of the three should be off leading strings, not believing any of them.

The growing argument is interrupted by the appearance of a man with shaggy white hair.





Chapter 4. The Gleeman.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Thomdril Merrilin, the gleeman, emerges from the Winespring Inn and entertains Rand, Mat, Pairin, Igwayne, and Ewin, as well as many other villagers. He juggles many balls and talks about the stories he will be sharing during Bel Tine. The performance is interrupted, however, by the arrival of Mworane and LAN. Ewin says that Mworane collects stories. There is tension between the gleeman and the visiting Lady, but he assures her all of his stories will be pleasing.


After a while, Nine'eev and the Village Council emerge from their questioning of Padan Fain. The boys ask Tam about their discussion with Fain, but Tam says it was just a lot of talk about battles in far away Ghealdan. Mat is particularly interested in the battles but Tam dismisses them. Tam informs Rand that they will be returning to their farm that night. On the way, Rand asks his father why the Village Council took Fain in for a private talk when what Fain said could have easily been shared with everyone. Tam explains that it was important for the village to see that the Council was calmly considering the issue even if it would likely not affect them at all. By doing so, it puts everyone at ease that it would be handled and nobody would be worrying about it during the festival. Rand begins to understand that being a leader is more complicated than it looks. Tam also reveals that several other village boys have spotted the strange rider, and that a watch is being mounted. That is why they are heading back to their farm early.





Chapter 5. Winternight.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand and Tam return to their farm and do chores until time for dinner. Tam locks the doors of the house, even though no one in the Two Rivers ever does such a thing, saying it's best to be safe. While dinner is cooking, he goes upstairs and retrieves a sword from an old chest under his bed. Rand is surprised; he has never seen the sword, and decides to ask more questions over dinner.  





As dinner is being served, Trollocs burst into the farmhouse. Rand flees through a side window as Tam holds them off, killing three. The two men regroup in the woods, where Rand finds that his father has been wounded and is suffering from a high fever. He returns to the farmhouse to collect supplies.

After entering, Rand meets a Trolloc named Narg who asks him to put his sword down and says a Myrddraal will be coming and will want to speak with him. When Rand lowers his sword, Narg tries to rush him. Standing his ground, Rand manages to raise the sword in time and kills the beast, mostly by accident. After collecting needed supplies from the house, he goes to the barn to get Behla and the cart, but finds the horse and milk cow are missing and the cart mostly destroyed. Wondering how he is going to carry Tam back to Emmond's Field, he realizes timbers from the cart could be used for a litter. After using Tam's sword to cut the hard wood and finding the blade miraculously unaffected, he bundles all the gathered gear up and makes his way back to Tam.  







Chapter 6. The Westwood.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand drags Tam towards Emmond's Field on a litter in the woods along the Quarry Road. At one point he has to hide from a party of Trollocs led by a Myrddraal. During the journey, Tam talks feverishly, reliving old battles and finding Rand during the Blood Snow. He talks about Kari al'Thor, Rand's mother, who died fifteen years ago. He raves about the Eye’eel War and Laman's sin, the field at Marath, and Kai'rienne burning. Rand heads through the woods toward the village. While the Fade and its group pass by, Rand can feel the evil emanating from the dark creature. Tam cries out more about Avendoraldera, the cutting of Avendesora that grew for five hundred years before King Laman cut it down. In some stories, Avendesora belongs to the Green Man. Tam also shouts about how pleased Kari will be that he found Rand on Dragonmount. Stunned, Rand wonders who he really is.





“... battles are always hot, even in the snow. Sweat heat. Blood heat. Only death is cool. Slope of the mountain ... only place didn't stink of death. Had to get away from smell of it ... sight of it ... heard a baby cry. Their women fight alongside the men, sometimes, but why they had let her come, I don't ... gave birth there alone, before she died of her wounds ... covered the child with her cloak, but the wind ... blown the cloak away ... child, blue with the cold. Should have been dead, too ... crying there. Crying in the snow. I couldn't just leave a child ... no children of our own ... always knew you wanted children. I knew you'd take it to your heart, Kari. Yes, lass. Rand is a good name. A good name.”— Tam al'Thor




Chapter 7. Out of the Woods.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand arrives at Emmond's Field to find that it has also been attacked by Trollocs. He is met by Master Luhhan, who flags down Igwayne. They follow her to Nine'eev, who inspects Tam and concludes that she can do nothing for him. Igwayne gives Rand an emotional embrace, then rushes back to continue helping Nine'eev. Rand goes to the Winespring Inn in search of the mayor, Brandelwyn al'Veer, hoping he will know how to help Tam.

He finds Thom Merrilin outside the inn and the two of them carry Tam inside. There is a Dragon's Fang on the inn door. Bran al'Veer sends the gleeman running to fetch Nine'eev to care for Tam before Rand can tell them she's already seen him. After Thom leaves, Rand and Bran find a bed for Tam in one of the inn's vacant rooms.





Rand is in denial after learning that Tam found him and is not really his father.

Thom returns after nearly having his head removed by the wrath of the village Wisdom and steers the conversation to Mworane. The Mayor says that the village would've been utterly destroyed if not for her help, revealing that she and LAN had sounded the first warning of the impending attack. In the battle she called ball lightning from the sky, making it obvious that she is Eyes Sedai and LAN is her Warder. The Dragon's Fang was marked by villagers angry at the presence of an Eyes Sedai.

Bran reminds Rand of the stories that Eyes Sedai can Heal, so Rand goes to find Mworane. He swears he will pay any price in his power if she will heal Tam. Mworane questions Rand about his dreams and asks him to let her know if he has nightmares. LAN begins calling Rand "sheepherder."





Chapter 8. A Place of Safety.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


When Rand, Mworane, and LAN arrive at the room where Tam lies, Thom Merrilin and Bran al'Veer are watching over him. Thom stalks out right away, and LAN announces that he does not trust the gleeman, who was nowhere to be seen that night. Mworane asks everyone to leave, but Rand asks to stay and she allows it. Rand and LAN sit against the wall, and Mworane asks not to be disturbed. Rand watches her, realizing she must be channeling the One Power.





LAN asks him about Tam's sword. Rand says it is his father's, and LAN says it is an odd blade for a sheepherder. Rand asks LAN if it would've helped them to know earlier about the man in the black cloak he'd seen. Mworane says that she would've needed to bring a half dozen of her sisters to deal with the Trollocs and Myrddraal that were in the Two Rivers. She goes on to say that the raven she saw the previous day should have clued her in regardless, so it is not Rand's fault. LAN explains that carrion eaters such as ravens, crows, and sometimes rats in cities can be minions of the Dark One.





Rand looks at his father, and asks if Mworane is finished yet. She says that she has soothed his pain, but the Trolloc weapon has left a taint which is difficult to Heal. She takes out her robed woman angreal, and begins Healing Tam again. LAN tells Rand that the dark rider was a Myrddraal, and tells him more about them. Rand tells LAN how he talked to one Trolloc, startling the Warder, before killing it. LAN congratulates him, as does Mworane who rises unsteadily from Tam's bedside. Mworane says he will be fine, as long as he has a few weeks of bedrest.

Mworane says offhandedly that Rand will doubtless be leaving at the same time she and LAN are. Rand is surprised, and babbles about how nobody ever really leaves the Two Rivers. Mworane says that Rand himself will have to leave for the sake of his village. Most of the village was not attacked, except to sow confusion. The exceptions were Abell Cauthon's house, Haral Luhhan's house and forge, as well as Tam's farm and the Eyebarra farm outside of the village. The Trollocs were after Mat and Pairin as well as Rand, because they were looking for someone who was born near a certain time, and all three boys are within weeks of the same age.

Rand says that there must be some mistake. LAN points out that it took a lot of effort to get so many Trollocs to the Two Rivers without them being noticed, and Mworane says that they will likely be back, unless their targets leave. She says that only in Tar Vawlyn would they really be safe. Rand is reluctant to go so far, and to be with so many Eyes Sedai. He asks if he can wait until his father wakes up, but Mworane says that they should leave as soon as they can after dark, and she will fetch the other two boys.

Rand stays with his father, and Master al'Veer and his wife come back. Mistress al'Veer gives him something to eat, and says he needs sleep. The two of them confirm LAN's information on which houses and farms were attacked. Rand thinks about Tam's sword and how his father must have been outside the Two Rivers to get it. After the al'Veres leave, Rand sits beside Tam, vowing to stay awake until his father wakes up.





Chapter 9. Tellings of the Wheel.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


“Spring had never come here, and never would come. Dust coated the stone as if never a drop of rain had touched it. The sun was a swollen, blood-red ball, more fiery than the on the hottest day of summer and bright enough to sear Rand's eyes. It stood stark against a leaden cauldron of a sky where clouds of sharp black and silver roiled and boiled on every horizon. For all the swirling clouds, though, no breath of breeze stirred across the land. The sun burned like the depths of winter.”— Rand al'Thor's dream, paraphrased


Rand dreams that he is running across barren hills, under a blood-red sun. He can hear Trollocs on his trail, though he cannot see them. He scrambles to the top of a ridge and finds himself on the edge of a sheer cliff. In the middle of the great valley, there is a single tall, dead black mountain. He feels unseen hands trying to pull him towards the mountain, but he fights them. He hears a voice in his head, saying "Serve me," and he shouts out in defiance to Shai'tan, then turns and scrambles away.

Suddenly he finds himself in a different place, on a rolling plain covered with winter-dead vegetation. There is another mountain, broken-peaked, which does not make him afraid. A river circles the mountain, and on an island in the river he sees a white city. Joyfully he moves towards the city, then begins to flee from the cold presence he can feel behind him. The city begins to recede as he draws closer, though; his pursuer's fingers touch him, then he trips and falls.

He lands on paving stones, near one of the bridges to the city. Smiling people speaking an unknown tongue pass him, beckoning him into the city. The city is filled with wondrous things, but ahead he sees the white tower that is his destination. When he tries to take a detour, though, he finds the tower ahead of him every way he turns. The people urge him desperately towards the tower. He walks towards it; children throw flowers at his feet, and voices are raised in song. He reaches a palace at the base of the tower, and inside a Myrddraal says it has been waiting for him.

Rand awakens suddenly from these nightmares to find he's slept most of the day away by Tam's bedside. The fire has been tended while he slept, and the cooled dinner has been replaced with warm food, indicating Mistress al'Veer's persistent hand at work.

As Rand begins eating ravenously, Tam wakes up. Rand tells his father of the recent events since the Trolloc attack on their farm, and that the Eyes Sedai claims that Rand must leave Emmond's Field since the invaders were searching for him or one of his friends. Tam doubts Mworane's story, and asks Rand to repeat it word-for-word as much as he can remember, because while Eyes Sedai cannot lie they can twist their words.

LAN knocks on the door, advising Rand to say his goodbyes quickly, because there may be trouble. Rand begins to unbuckle the sword belt, but Tam advises him to keep it as he may have more use for it. They exchange a hug, and LAN drags Rand out. Mat is waiting outside the room with his bow, and the two of them hurry down the stairs after LAN.

Downstairs a crowd of villagers, led by Hari Coplin and his brother Darl, have gathered outside the inn to attempt to run Mworane and LAN out of the village, blaming them for the arrival of the Trollocs. When Hari threatens to burn them out, Haral Luhhan and Bran al'Veer manage to shame most of the crowd to silence by pointing out the lives and limbs that Mworane and LAN saved during and after the attack.


Mworane gets the crowd's full attention by twirling her staff and making it spout flame from both ends. She laments that this is what Aemon's blood has come to, that they have forgotten where they came from. She then tells them a story about the great city of Manetheren and how it was destroyed during the Trolloc Wars, taking a great Trolloc army led by Dreadlords with it. Manetheren never rose again, and its memory was all but lost, but its descendants continued to live in the Two Rivers.


After Mworane's tale, some of the villagers come forward and say that Mworane can stay if she wishes, and the others slink off in shame. As they leave, LAN pulls Rand and Mat around the back of the inn, towards the stables.





Chapter 10. Leavetaking.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand and Mat enter the stables with LAN to find Pairin already there. LAN asks Pairin if he's searched the stables, and Pairin says he has. Five horses are ready and waiting for them. Mat makes a comment about Rand's sword, and then they notice Pairin has an axe strapped to his belt. LAN says that Mat's bow is just as good a weapon as well as the slings they used to bring down rabbits. The important thing is the person wielding the weapon.


Mat and Pairin say that they left notes for their families, since Mworane asked them not to tell anyone they were leaving. Rand says that he talked to his father, which Mworane hears as she enters the stable. She dismisses it as part of the Pattern. LAN says they are ready to leave, but Igwayne slips into the stables and insists that she be allowed to come, too. She had noticed Mat and Pairin creeping about and the extra horses LAN was buying and deduced that they were leaving. She says this may be the only chance she gets to leave the Two Rivers and see the outside world. She also dismisses the boys' story about being chased by Trollocs. Mworane agrees to let her come, overriding LAN's incredulous objections. She invokes the Pattern again and tells LAN that there is indeed a reason for Igwayne to come.

They decide that she can ride the gleeman's horse, for which LAN will leave money to pay for. But then Thom speaks from up in the hayloft, saying that will not be possible since he is going with them too. He claims that he wants to play in Tar Vawlyn. LAN watches him warily, bare sword in hand, until Mworane agrees to let him come. They end up saddling Behla for Igwayne to ride.

They leave the stable and head off into the night. LAN brings them to a halt just before leaving the stableyard, and they hear the rattle of boots on the Wagon Bridge. Watching quietly, they see a group of men wearing old weapons and armor scrounged from forgotten storage places, patrolling the village. Clearly, this must be the new village watch. After the watch has gone, LAN leads them north through the village and out into the countryside, paralleling the North Road.

Rand looks up at the sky and sees a dark, batlike shadow crossing the moon. When he tells the others about it, LAN identifies it as a Draghkar, which Thom says is another kind of Shadowspawn created after the Age of Legends. They continue north towards Tawwren Ferry.





Chapter 11. The Road to Tawwren Ferry.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

The horses gallop along the North Road, LAN and Mworane in front and Rand in the rear, just behind Thom. Cloud keeps wanting to race with LAN's horse, but Rand holds him back. Worried about Behla's ability to keep up, and whether LAN would consider Igwayne worth going back for, Rand exhorts her with all his heart to run, and she does.


They reach Watch Hill in record time and pause outside while the town's Bel Tine celebration is still going on. Thom, Mat and Pairin urge a rest stop. LAN says that they cannot stop until they cross the river. Mworane is moving among the horses removing their fatigue. She notes that Behla is perhaps the least tired of all the horses.

The Draghkar swoops low over them with a fearsome scream, panicking Cloud, who runs off with Rand still holding his reins. Rand manages to keep his hold until the horse halts his headlong rush, and looks back to see that the rest of the horses had also panicked, except for LAN's and Mworane's. Watch Hill's celebrations stop for a moment, as they too have heard the scream.


LAN says the Draghkar must have already told its master about them, so they can spare no more time to rest. Everyone promptly mounts except Rand, who is standing with his sword out, searching the sky for the Draghkar. He is embarrased when they call to him, so he leaps onto Cloud. They ride closer together this time, the Draghkar's cries following them, and Rand is surprised to see Igwayne exulting in Behla's uncanny speed. Mworane responds to a question from LAN that she cannot attack the thing from horseback in the dark; Draghkar are hard enough to kill when they can be seen. Instead, she summons a fog to cover their path. LAN says there is still only one possible destination, and Mworane says she intends to use the Halfman's own cleverness against him.


They race on and on through the fog, the Draghkar's cries falling behind, for what seems like hours. LAN suddenly calls them to a halt, and Rand races past the group before he can rein in his horse. They have reached Tawwren Ferry. LAN and Mworane lead them to the house of Master Hightower, the ferryman. LAN pounds loudly on the door to wake him. The ferryman says the ferry never crosses at night, but LAN gives him enough gold to change his mind, and he goes to rouse his haulers.





Chapter 12. Across the Tawwren.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand and the others follow LAN and Mworane through the fog-covered town of Tawwren Ferry. Rand takes a few steps forward onto wood planking before he realizes that they have reached the ferry landing. LAN lifts Pairin's cloak to make his axe visible and motions for others to show their weapons also, just before the ferryman approaches with six sturdy helpers. Rand grasps the hilt of his sword, Mat puts a hand on his quiver, and Thom seems to conjure knives out of nowhere. LAN tells the ferrymen that they will get the rest of their gold on the far side of the river.


They bring their horses onto the ferry, which is attached to ropes on either side that stretch across the river. The ferrymen cast loose and begin hauling the ferry across. Rand asks LAN if they were really in danger of being robbed, and LAN says that men will do many things when they think they are unseen. He assures Rand that however corrupt Master Hightower is, he's unlikely to ferry a Myrddraal and his Trollocs over after them. The man overhears a little bit of their talk and looks at them suspiciously.

They reach the other side of the river and disembark. Master Hightower demands the rest of his gold, and Mworane says they shall get what was promised and extra silver for the haulers' quick crossing. Everyone leaves the ferry and coins are being distributed when the ferry breaks loose and begins to spin in a whirlpool; it breaks up as they watch. LAN apologizes for the ill luck, and pays the ferryman more gold for the loss of his ferry. The ferryman takes the gold and runs upriver followed by his men.

As they leave the riverbank, Rand notices that the fog disappears suddenly a few paces further from the river. Mworane has changed the fog so that it is flowing downriver instead of continuing to cover them. She is trying to mislead their pursuers into thinking they might have gone downstream part of the way, rather than continuing straight on to Baerlon.


LAN leads them further from the riverbank and into the woods a little way. They come to a toppled stand of trees, which LAN has made a shelter beneath, and he starts a small fire. They leave their horses outside; LAN says to leave them saddled but hobbled. Pairin says that they hardly seem tired, but LAN explains that they would gladly run until they died of the exhaustion they didn't even feel. They hear a Draghkar's screams from nearby, but LAN listens and says that it is searching the river. Mworane's ruse worked.


Inside the shelter Mworane and Igwayne sit on the ground facing each other. The villagers and Thom listen as Mworane tells Igwayne about the True Source and the One Power. She informs Igwayne that she has the inborn ability to channel, and would do it inevitably even if not taught how. She explains further that a girl's chances of survival are much better if she is taught. Trying hard, Igwayne manages to produce a feeble light inside of Mworane's blue gem. She proudly announces that she is going to be an Eyes Sedai!





Chapter 13. Choices.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Before anyone sleeps, Mworane once again heals each person of their fatigue. LAN gets everyone moving early the next day.

LAN, scouting ahead and behind the party, finds no evidence of pursuit, but Rand, Mat and Pairin continue to keep their weapons at the ready for some time anyway.

The group always stops for the night while there is still a little daylight left, and LAN begins giving the boys lessons on how to better use the weapons they are carrying.

One morning, Igwayne begins unbraiding her hair; Rand questions why she would do that after waiting all her life for the chance to braid it. She says that Eyes Sedai don't braid their hair unless they want to. When Rand points out that she is not an Eyes Sedai and the Emmond's Field Women's Circle would disapprove, the conversation quickly descends into a shouting match. Eventually, LAN interrupts to ask if they are trying to wake everyone for miles around.

A couple of nights later, Mat says he's of the opinion that their pursuers have been lost for good. He thinks they should start thinking of seeing some of the places from Master al'Veer's map, such as Kaymlin and Illian. When Pairin wants to know why he'd want to see Illian, Mat starts to say that one good reason is because the city isn't full of Eyes Sedai, but is interrupted by Mworane's appearance.

Mworane berates them for forgetting the events of Winternight so quickly. She goes on to remind them that the Dark One is after one of them—if not all three—and that she intends to stop that from happening, even if that means destroying the trio herself.

Igwayne continues to have nightly sessions with Mworane learning about the One Power and channeling. One evening, Rand surreptitiously follows the pair and listens in on their conversation. Igwayne is seeking reassurance that it was evil men who caused the Breaking of the World; the Eyes Sedai confirms that it was men who caused it but that they were not evil, just insane. She goes on to point out that Eyes Sedai have flaws just like everyone else.

When Igwayne asks why the Trollocs came to Emmond's Field, Mworane turns her head to look directly at Rand's hiding place in the darkness and he beats a hasty retreat to the rest of the group, hoping he wasn't seen.

Late on the sixth day of their journey, the group finally reaches the town of Baerlon. Mworane instructs everyone that they are trying to attract as little attention as possible and not to mention Trollocs or Myrddraal. Here, Mworane and LAN are known by the aliases of Alys and Andra. When the party requests entrance at one of the closed gates in the town wall, the gatekeeper begins to turn them away to another gate until he sees and recognizes Mistress Alys.

Once the party has passed through the gate, Avin the gatekeeper fills them in on recent happenings in Baerlon and beyond. The Children of the Light have come to Baerlon, and finding the Governor will not allow more than 10 or so of them in the town at once, have made camp to the north. There are rumors of trouble in Saldaea and a big battle in Ghealdan. In Ghealdan, the self-proclaimed Dragon Reborn has apparently gathered an army of thousands and has named them the People of the Dragon.

When the gatekeeper has exhausted his store of news, the party moves on, eventually entering the stableyard of the Stag and Lion Inn through a rear entrance. They are greeted warmly by Master Fitch, who takes them inside with the promise of hot baths.





Chapter 14. The Stag and Lion.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


The innkeeper leads the group through the kitchen, telling them that the inn is full to bursting due to large numbers of people coming down from the mines, telling stories of wolves and worse.

LAN vanishes into the common room looking for news, and Mworane questions the innkeeper about the presence of the Children of the Light in the town. He assures her they are nothing to worry about, and she asks if Min is still there. The Eyes Sedai wants to talk to her for some reason. But the group splits up—to go to their promised hot baths—and Rand hears nothing more of the conversation.

Once settled in for a good soak, Rand asks the attendant if there is any kind of trouble in Baerlon. He answers that there's nothing more than miners fighting, but appears to be hiding something. When he mentions hearing about Trollocs in the Borderlands, Mat begins to tell him about their recent battles in the Two Rivers, but is quickly cut off by Rand, Pairin and Thom.

LAN arrives then, saying he's been waiting for a good bath, and firmly puts the attendant out of the room. He then gives Mat a sound tongue lashing for telling stories he ought not to be telling, pointing out that the Dark One has spies in many unexpected places.

When the men finally leave the bath chamber, Rand sees Mworane talking with a slender girl at the end of the hallway. He thinks she's a girl anyway, even though she's wearing a man's shirt and pants.

The group then assembles in a private dining room to eat. When Rand sees Igwayne, he goes over to apologize for their earlier argument, but she turns her back on him.

At the table, Mworane cautions everyone that maids listen at doors and innkeepers like to talk. Talk quickly turns to discussion of news. LAN tells that there apparently was a battle in Ghealdan and Logain's army won. It is not known with any certainty what happened to the Eyes Sedai who were involved in the fight. Mworane tells the group that she intends for them all to stay in Baerlon for two nights, and then leave early in the morning of the second day.

After dinner, everyone adjourns to their rooms; the innkeeper was only able to spare three, one for the women and two split among the men. Rand drops off to sleep as the gleeman leaves for the common room to perform.

Rand finds himself in a dim stone hallway, with no recollection of how he came to be there. There appears to be nothing there except pairs of doors set opposite each other at intervals, so there is nothing to help in choosing which direction to go. Finding himself thirsty, he follows a steady dripping sound until he finds it is growing no closer, at which point he opens a door and walks through.

The room looks out over a balcony onto an impossible sunset and there is a roaring blaze in the hearth. Suddenly Rand notices a man in front of the fireplace that he had not seen before. When the man speaks to Rand, his mouth and eyes appears as empty sockets full of flame, and Rand tries to flee. But when he crashes through the door on the opposite side of the hallway, he finds himself back in the same room. He tries again to flee, only to find that this time, the door no longer leads into the hallway, but directly back into the same room, and now the door is closed and locked.

By now, Rand has concluded that this is a nightmare. The man offers Rand a drink from a jeweled cup, and Rand is very thirsty. But just before he takes a sip, he reconsiders and refuses the beverage. The man is obviously disappointed at this, though Rand cannot discern why. When Rand asks the man to identify himself, he says that some call him Ba'alzamon. Rand flees in terror from the man who has just named himself the Dark One, but is still unable to open the door.

Ba'alzamon taunts Rand, telling of how he has affected the world. Ba'alzamon watched as Lews Therin Kinslayer slew his family. A thousand years later he unleashed Trollocs to devastate the continent for centuries. Then he manipulated Artur Hawkwing into a vendetta with the Eyes Sedai. Ba'alzamon asks Rand if he is seeking power and glory, telling him he will be used by the White Tower like every other False Dragon.

Rand awakens suddenly, gripping the blanket on his bed in the inn. He wonders if he should tell Mworane about his dream, and it takes a long time for him to fall back to sleep.





Chapter 15. Strangers and Friends.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


After more unpleasant dreams, Rand finally awakens long after sunrise. Before leaving his room, Rand debates whether to take Tam's Heron-mark sword with him, but eventually decides to. He hurries downstairs, not wanting to waste any more time on his only day in the city.

Looking for something to eat, Rand heads for the kitchen, where he finds Master Fitch having an argument with Sara—the inn's cook—over her cat. When the cook threatens to quit, the innkeeper quickly assures her that he will ignore further complaints from customers about her cat and she agrees to stay. After throwing Fitch out of the kitchen, she tells Rand that all but one of his friends have already gone out, as she orders a maid to get him some bread and cheese. Rand begins to eat while Sara continues to talk, but becomes agitated when the cook tells him that the innkeeper was complaining about over a dozen dead rats found in the inn, all with their backs broken.

Rand begins trying to find someone to talk to about his dream. He finds Thom in the common room, busy telling stories. Next he goes to find which of his friends is still in the building. Pairin is still in bed, and he says he may never sleep again because of a nightmare he had, adding that Mat also tossed and turned all night. When the two find that they have had the same dream, they debate telling Mworane about it, but don't reach a conclusion. Rand decides to go out to see the city, but Pairin says he intends to stay in bed a while longer.

When Rand gets to the stableyard gate, however, he is overwhelmed by the crowds, the sights and smells, so he turns back and just sits on a barrel outside the back of the inn. There, he once again encounters the slender woman from the previous day, who remarks on his sword and asks him what kind of trouble he's involved in before introducing herself as Min. Rand tries to answer that he's not in any trouble—being from the Two Rivers, which is a quiet place of quiet people—but the girl seems to be not listening.

She says she has heard the jokes about sheepherders from the Two Rivers, but that she's also spoken with those who know better, and they say that Two Rivers folk may appear meek and soft on the surface, but are tough as oak underneath, and if one prods too hard, they find stone. She claims the stone isn't very deeply buried in Rand and his friends, as if something had scraped away the soft coverings. She also shows that she knows Mworane and LAN's true names.

When Rand asks her why she thinks Mworane has another name than 'Mistress Alys', she tells him about her talent. She sees things around some people she looks at that tell her about things that will happen to that person in the future. When she tells Rand about her visions concerning him and his friends, he begins to think she may be crazy. As he begins to walk away from her, Min calls to him that he can't escape her, and he starts to move even faster.

Several streets away, Rand finally begins to slow down and take in the sights of the town. Rand sees that the people of Baerlon look remarkably like anyone he might have seen in the Two Rivers. After wandering around for a while, he sees a man who looks like Padan Fain; only it turns out that it really is Padan Fain, and the man runs away from Rand. Rand chases him and catches him in an alley, but the man is grimy and looks like he's been on the run. When Rand asks him to come back to the Stag and Lion where they're staying, Fain declines, begging Rand not to tell Mworane about him, then runs away again.

As Rand once again chases after Fain, he runs into Mat and both fall over. Mat admits to Rand that he had the same dream, and the two agree to ask the gleeman what they should do, but realize that they need to get Pairin to agree to their plan of not telling Mworane.

Rand and Mat head back toward the inn, but see three Children of the Light walking down the street toward them. Mat concludes that they seem to be too full of themselves and decides to play a trick on the trio. He climbs out a shop window onto the rooftop and uses his sling to set loose a set of barrels on the street which crash into the mud and splatter the Whitecloaks. Rand laughs and earns the ire of the three men. When they confront him, he tells them accidents happen, and throws back his cloak to reveal his sword. One of the Whitecloaks notices the heron-mark, but another scoffs that Rand is too young to have earned it.

Rand is feeling flushed and feverish, but just as the confrontation is about to escalate, the Whitecloaks see the Town Watch approaching and walk away. Mat returns and tells Rand he must be crazy. They try to make their way back to the inn, but get lost a couple of times before they run into Thom. They tell him about their dreams and he agrees it would be best not to tell Mworane—yet. The three finally arrive back at the inn, where Pairin rushes out to meet them.

He says that Nine'eev has come to Baerlon to find them. 
Reluctantly, the four of them go inside to face her.





Chapter 16. The Wisdom.






Point of view: Rand.


Inside the inn, Rand runs into Min again. She tells him that Nine'eev is a part of the trouble that he and the others are in and that they are all in greater danger now that she's arrived.

When the group enters the room, Nine'eev and Mworane are facing each other from opposite ends of the table. Rand takes a seat and the others follow his lead to do the same.

After persuading Nine'eev that the drink previously set in front of her is not poisoned, LAN says that he would be interested in knowing how she found them, to which Nine'eev replies that she followed their trail. The Warder is surprised at this, but Nine'eev was taught to hunt and track by her father, who didn't have sons so taught Nine'eev instead. LAN compliments her on her skill and she hides a blush by burying her face in her cup.

When Mworane begins to question the Wisdom, she replies that she has come to take Igwayne and the boys back to Emmond's Field. Thom scolds Nine'eev for not being more careful about what she says regarding Mworane's true identity, since there are those in Baerlon who would kill her and anyone with her simply for what she is.

Rand states that they can't go back because the Trollocs would follow them, to which Nine'eev replies that he sounds just like Tam. Emmond's Field had a town meeting to determine what should be done about the four young people who vanished on Winternight, and Tam was insistent that he should be sent to bring them home, even though he couldn't even walk. She also says that Mat's father was more afraid that Mat's practical jokes would get him into trouble than he was of Mworane, and Master Luhhan is not pleased to find Pairin gone either.

Nine'eev continues that while she might have expected poor judgement from Rand, Mat and Pairin, she thought Igwayne had more sense. Igwayne, attempting to hide her unbraided hair inside her hood, objects weakly that she left a note, but earns only a dark look from Nine'eev. Before Nine'eev can subject the girl to a tongue-lashing, however, Mworane interrupts that she and the Wisdom still need to speak, and asks Igwayne and the others to leave so that they may do so privately.

After some time, Nine'eev emerges from the room and talks to Rand. She reveals that she left Emmond's Field to come after the group after convincing the Women's Circle that it had to be done (since the Village Council could not reach a decision). Rand asks what else was said between her and the Eyes Sedai, and Nine'eev replies that it was mostly more of the same, but that Mworane seemed to be searching for a reason for the Winternight attack, asking if any of the three boys was born outside Emmond's Field.

Rand then tells her of Tam's fevered ramblings after the battle at the farm, but Nine'eev assures him that when Tam brought his wife back to the Two Rivers, that it was her child she was carrying. Rand, however, takes this as confirmation that he was indeed born outside the Two Rivers. He asks Nine'eev what she is going to do, but she will only say that he'll have to wait and see.





Chapter 17. Watchers and Hunters.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


After parting with Nine'eev, Rand heads for the inn's common room. There he finds a crowd gathered, listening to Thom recite stories from The Great Hunt of the Horn. Rand finds a spot to sit between Mat and Pairin, and listens to Thom tell story after story.

Eventually, the gleeman puts down his harp and picks up his flute, signaling the end of stories for the evening. The first song is somewhat slow and melancholy, but the next ones are livelier; Rand and Pairin quickly jump up to dance, leaving Mat to guard their things. As Rand dances his way around the room, he notices a scar-faced man who seems to be scowling at him. The man is quickly forgotten, however, when Rand finds his next dancing partner is Nine'eev.

Rand stumbles through his steps with the Wisdom, and as they change partners again she teases him that she had thought him a better dancer. He hardly has time to gather himself, though, as he has to dance with Mworane next. When Rand gets the chance to dance with Igwayne, he acquits himself better, but still can't muster the will to speak to her since their earlier quarrel.

The group dances on through the evening, and Rand manages to improve his poise when dancing with Nine'eev and Mworane again. Around midnight, the Eyes Sedai retires for the evening; Igwayne hurries after her, but not without casting a worried glance toward Nine'eev. Nine'eev then joins in on one more dance before she too returns to her room, clearly believing she has outdone Mworane in some way.

Soon after, Thom begins putting his instruments away and LAN drops in to gather up the stragglers. Rand is surprised to hear Mat telling LAN about a scar-faced man that has been staring at him, but when he looks around he finds the man is no longer in the room. LAN says he may be a Whitecloak spy, but that it's no concern to them. Rand says he's going to get some milk from the kitchen, and LAN warns him not to wander far, saying that there's something wrong.

As Rand heads for his room sipping his milk, a Fade approaches from the end of the hall. The Halfman asks Rand where the others are, but Rand is unable to either answer or run away. As the sound of boots running in the upstairs hallway is heard, the Fade swings its sword at Rand's head, then stops at the last moment, saying that Rand belongs to the Great Lord of the Dark.

The Myrddraal vanishes from the hall just before LAN comes crashing down the stairs. Now the group must leave immediately, since their location has been found out. Thom and Nine'eev decide to go with them. As they make hurried preparations to depart, Mworane cautions the innkeeper to disassociate himself from them as well as he can, but Master Fitch politely ignores her advice. As they mount their horses, Rand apologizes to Igwayne for their argument, and it seems to make her feel better.

When the group reaches the Kaymlin Gate to leave the city, the watchman must be persuaded - via soft words and hard currency - to open the gate. As soon as the gate begins to open, however, five Whitecloaks appear, disputing the right of the party to leave the city at night. One of them is Dain Bornhauld, the man Mat and Rand had encountered earlier, who fell victim to Mat's practical joke. When he recognizes Rand, he threatens to take the group to the Whitecloak camp for questioning.

Now Mworane, who had stayed back out of the light at the approach of the Children, moves forward to challenge Bornhauld. She speaks in a thunderous voice that comes from all directions at once, asking if a Whitecloak would dare to question her. Instantly recognizing her for an Eyes Sedai, the man draws his sword and strikes at her, but she raises her staff and easily blocks the blade. Bornhauld's sword is left bent and smoking and he is knocked back into his men; they all go down in a heap. Mworane is now towering taller than the town's walls, and at LAN's urging the party charges past the downed men through the gate into the night. Some distance from the wall, LAN stops the group to wait for Mworane, and Rand looks back to see her step over the town wall. The town's watchmen then slam shut and bar the gate behind them, despite the protests of the Whitecloaks.

As LAN starts moving everyone down the Kaymlin Road, Mat looks back to see flames lighting up the night sky over Baerlon and Mworane knows right away that it is the Stag and Lion that is burning. Some of the group question why they would not go back to help, but Mworane points out that that could give the Dark One exactly what he wants. Mworane says she will instead send gold to Master Fitch later to rebuild the inn.

A few hours before dawn the group stops to rest for just an hour, then continues east down the road.





Chapter 18. The Kaymlin Road

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

The first day on the road, Nine'eev ignores Mworane completely, but then spends the next two days talking to the Eyes Sedai about herbs. During rest stops, LAN studies the surrounding countryside as well as the road ahead of and behind the group.

During dinner that third day, once again cold, just like breakfast and supper too, Igwayne sighs that there was a time when she liked cheese. LAN chooses that moment to point out that there are Myrddraal and Trollocs following them, even if they haven't yet seen them. Pairin suggests cutting through the countryside on a direct east heading, but Mworane says it is still faster to use the road despite the longer route. Then the blast of a horn is heard from somewhere behind them; Rand estimates no more than ten miles, and everyone knows it is time to be moving again. But instead of leading them on, LAN gallops back toward their pursuers while Mworane takes them in the opposite direction.

When LAN catches up with the group some time later, he reports there are at least three fists of Trollocs chasing them, each with a Fade in the lead. When horns sound from both ahead and behind them, Mworane knows they have been cut off. The only directions left open to them are north and south; south leads to the River Tawwren which there is no way to cross, but north ends at the Arinelle which may be crossable via boat. LAN tells Mworane that there is a place where the Trollocs will not go, but she emphatically refuses the suggestion, and the two speak quietly for a while so that none can hear what is said.

Eventually, Mworane leads everyone to the north. LAN puts the horses to a grueling pace through the hilly terrain, but the pursuing Trollocs slowly close the gap. LAN tells everyone that the Trollocs are nearby, and as they crest a hill, they see a Halfman leading a group of them up the hill. Telling the group to stay close to him, he leads them into battle crying "For the Seven Towers!" Hearing this, Rand calls out "Manetheren! Manetheren!" and is soon echoed by Pairin. Mat, not to be outdone, shouts "Carai an Caldazar! Carai an Ellisande! Al Ellisande!"[1][2]

LAN heads directly for the Myrddraal, while the others dive into the Trollocs.

The sound of LAN's sword meeting the Myrddraal's blade rings like a great bell and is accompanied by flashes of blue light like lightning. Rand tries to find Igwayne in the chaos, and finally spots her near Mworane. The Eyes Sedai is lashing out at the Trollocs, killing them with fire from her staff, even as they try to flee from her.

A noose catches Rand and is about to pull him from his saddle when suddenly the pulling stops. Astonished, he looks around him to find all of the Trollocs shrieking because LAN has killed their Myrddraal by severing its head from its body. Thom says it won't truly die until nightfall, however.

LAN shouts at the group to ride on, as there are more Trollocs still, and he doubles the pace he had previously set. Eventually, however, the pursuers again close in until there is only a hundred spans between them. Coming down the hill are a host of Trollocs led by three Fades. Mworane climbs down from her horse and stands to face the oncoming horde. Unwrapping her Robed woman angreal, she holds it in one hand and her Vine-carved staff in the other, and stabs the staff down into the earth.

There is a brief instant of silence, and then the ground begins to shake. The earth trembles in great waves, tossing Trollocs like toys, throwing them into a mass of confusion, but the three Myrddraal continue forward, apparently unimpeded. But the Eyes Sedai isn't through, yet. She lifts her staff from the ground and points to a hollow between the hills; twenty feet high, a fire springs up, then races to left and right for as far as the eye can see, forming a wall between the Dark One's forces and the Eyes Sedai's company.

After riding a distance away, Mworane crowds the group together and passes her staff over all of them, creating a false trail for the Trollocs to follow. She then leads them, at LAN's urging, to the ruins of a great city to take shelter for the night. Crumbling and overgrown with vines, Rand thinks it must be fifty times bigger than Baerlon. When Igwayne wonders what city it was, Mworane replies that during the Trolloc Wars it was known as Aridhol and was an ally of Manetheren.

She goes on to say that the city later died and came to be known as Shadar Logoth. 



Chapter 19. Shadow's Waiting.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


As Rand and his friends make their way into the dead city of Shadar Logoth, they find streets choked with weeds and piles of rubble everywhere, with not a living thing stirring. But the city is yet impressive, even half destroyed, with buildings large enough to dwarf the largest ones in Baerlon, huge fountains now devoid of water, and massive colissea.

LAN chooses a building to make camp in for the night, and instructs Rand, Mat and Pairin to bring the horses inside. As they do so, Nine'eev is rummaging through her sack of herbs for something to give to Mworane, while LAN cautions her to take careful heed of what she dispenses.

When the horses have been seen to, Thom says he's going inside for a smoke, but the boys decide to go out exploring the city - taking the back way out so as not to be stopped by the Eyes Sedai or her Warder.

The three explore the city until the sun is sinking very low, and are just starting to think of going back to the rest of the party, when Mat brings up the subject of finding treasure. When Rand and Pairin express doubt of such things, he says he at least wants to climb one of the towers. At this, a man speaks from behind them, saying that the towers are not safe.

The man says his name is Mordeth, and says he has not seen anyone in the city in a very long time. Rand remarks that they are on their way to Kaymlin. Mordeth answers that he has found a considerable amount of treasure―more than he can carry away on his own. He asks if Rand and his friends could help him, in exchange for keeping as much of it as they themselves can carry. Mat quickly agrees, so Rand and Pairin go along. The strange man takes them deep beneath one of the buildings to a room filled with gold, jewels and gem-encrusted objects of every type.

Dazzled by the riches, Mat inadvertently reveals that there are other people in the city with them and that they are travelling to Tar Vawlyn. This admission enrages Mordeth, who exclaims that he has been lied to. When Rand suddenly notices that the man is casting no shadow on the walls and comments on it, Mordeth begins to grow until he seems to fill the entire room, reaching out for Rand. Rand and Pairin recoil in horror, scrabbling to free their weapons, while Mat snatches a ruby-hilted dagger from the hoard.

Then a scream rends the air, and suddenly Mordeth is normal size again, cowering in a corner. When the three boys realize a trick was being used on them, Mordeth wails that they are all dead, then leaps toward the wall, transforming into a wisp of smoke that vanishes into the cracks in the stone.

Pairin and Rand want to leave immediately, but Mat protests that they can't just leave all the treasure behind. So Pairin and Rand each grab one of Mat's arms and haul him bodily toward the stairs, with him shouting all the while about the treasure. When the torches begin to go out, Mat stops shouting, and by the time the group reaches the bottom of the stairs, all of them are running as fast as they can go.

When they finally emerge, screaming, into the streets of the city, the sun has more than half disappeared behind the horizon. At first, they feel relieved to be out of the building, thinking they are safe. But then they begin to sense eyes watching them from the ruins lining the street. Fearfully, they decide to go as quickly as possible back to the others, staying in the middle of the street as much as possible.

Bursting back into the room LAN had chosen earlier, the three are confronted by Mworane, who demands an explanation of what has happened to them. When she hears the name 'Mordeth', Mworane questions them more closely. She wants to know if the man gave them anything or if they did anything for him. Rand assures her none of those things happened.

In response to a question from Igwayne, Mworane then tells them a little of the history of Aridhol, the city that became Shadar Logoth. She assures everyone that neither Mordeth nor any other evil that inhabits the city can cross the wards she has set around their resting place. LAN has gone out scouting, but everyone else tries to get some sleep. Rand has a strange dream about being a child chased by Mordeth and an old man watches them, cackling.

Returning in the middle of the night, LAN tells Mworane that there are Trollocs inside the walls―one fist being driven by four Myrddraal. Mworane decides they must leave the city immediately and make for the River Arinelle. Once there, she plans to set up a ward to hold back the Dark One's forces until they can find a way to cross.



Unanswered Questions[]


Why did Mordeth suddenly stop trying to kill the boys?
Who was the old man in Rand's dream?




Chapter 20. Dust on the Wind.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


The party make to leave the city quickly, but despite an admonition from LAN to stay close together, the Emmond's Fielders and Thom allow their efforts to stay silent and stealthy to cause them to fall a little behind the Warder and Mworane. A tendril of silvery mist drifts across the street between the two groups, and Mworane halts the slower group just before they would have touched it.

As the mist steadily thickens, Mworane explains that this is Mashadar, the evil of Shadar Logoth, and that its touch is death. Igwayne inquires if it can be killed, but Mworane tells her that it is too vast, and that the whole of the White Tower could not kill it. Unhappily, the Eyes Sedai points out a red star in the sky, telling the group to find another street free of Mashadar's tendrils, leave the city, and follow the star to reach the River Arinelle, whereupon she will find them once again.

As Mworane and LAN leave, Rand becomes the unwitting leader of his group, and tries various alternative routes, only to find the mist of Mashadar everywhere, and panic begins to rise amongst the Emmond's Fielders. Suddenly, they happen upon a group of Trollocs, and in the chaos that ensues, Thom and the Two Rivers people scatter, each calling for the others to follow them.

Pursued by three Trollocs and the Fade that drives them, Rand flees down a street lined with Mashadar fog. Just as it begins to show interest in his proximity, the mist detects the Shadowspawn and strikes for them with frightening speed. All four creatures die silently as the tendrils invade and consume them.

Left in silence, Rand's fears get the better of him when he spies a dark shadow, and he nearly attacks Mat, who has also managed to evade both mist and Trollocs. Relieved to be alive, the pair find their way to a gate leading out of the city and reluctantly head out into the dark forest beyond, but just as it seems they have left the horror of the night behind them, Thom rides out of gate behind them at full gallop, shouting "Ride, you fools!", as Trollocs pursue him. With just enough warning, Rand and Mat follow him toward the river.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin is alone in Shadar Logoth, carefully considering his next move, as is his way. When Igwayne comes into view he joins her, and soothes her fears about the others by telling her that Mworane and LAN will look after them. Both head out of the city without incident, but as they head deeper into the surrounding forest, Trollocs once more pick up their scent. Urging them both to greater speed, Pairin leads them towards the river but as Igwayne, on Behla, starts to fall behind, more and more of his concentration goes towards watching and encouraging her until abruptly he rides right off the edge of a sheer bluff and into the river below, with Igwayne following close behind.

Pursued by Trolloc spears, and losing his horse, Igwayne, and his cloak to the river—he considers releasing his axe too, but decides to keep it—Pairin eventually succeeds in reaching the calm of the other side. He calls out for his friends but receives no reply other than Trolloc shouting from the far side of the river. Alone, he heads off to find shelter.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand, Mat, and Thom have evaded their pursuers, but no sooner have they found their bearings than more Trollocs are upon them. An arrow from Mat finds a Trolloc's eye, but it is Thom's knife throwing that takes two down and leaves the last running for its fellows. Wasting no time, they soon reach the riverbank, but the boys are unsure which way to head, so Thom leads them downriver in the hopes of finding a way to cross. Soon they happen upon a trader's boat moored by a clearing and prepare to shift their belongings aboard after warning the captain of the danger. However, there is no time for preparations as six Trollocs burst out of the forest in pursuit. Leaving the horses, the trio take what they are holding and scramble on to the boat, shouting warnings to those aboard. Rand lands on the boat's sleeping sentry, and the man fearfully offers the boat and its contents to the imagined robber before he realizes what is happening. A number of Trollocs have boarded but the sailors are not easily overcome. One Trolloc close behind Rand smashes him to the deck with its catchpole and would have succeeded in spearing him with it if not for the extremely lucky intervention of the ship's boom, which—while Rand desperately yells "No!"—swings across the deck at a sudden lurch from the boat and crunches into the Shadowspawn, knocking it into the water.

As calm returns to the boat, the captain appears and reprimands Gelb—the sentry Rand awoke earlier—for repeated dereliction of duty. Despite attempting to shift blame to Rand, Gelb is to be put to shore at Whitebridge. The captain, Bayle Domon, takes the trio to his cabin for questioning, and Thom spins a tale that explains their situation without giving away their secrets, casting the boys as country louts hoping to become his apprentices. When Domon asks for Tam's sword as payment, Rand objects and before Thom can say otherwise has turned out his pockets for money; Mat reluctantly follows suit. The captain takes the only currency of value - the silver coins the boys each received from Mworane, exchanging them less his payment for passage to Whitebridge and damage to his ship. 

Rand hopes Domon will look for the other Emmond's Fielders, until the captain explains that they have already passed at least three or four miles from the place where they boarded. Indeed, the captain is reluctant to put to shore any sooner than Whitebridge itself, since he has seen his own share of Trollocs since wintering in Saldaea, far to the north.

Eventually, Thom leads the boys back up to the deck, still annoyed that they paid for their passage with coin when he could have done so with a few songs and stories. Mat isn't so sure, suspecting the captain may actually have cast them overboard as he had blustered earlier. Rand is worried about the others, particularly Igwayne, of whom he remembers he promised to take care. Thom tries to reassure him, suggesting that they are probably with Mworane and LAN by now, and who better, but Rand is still left feeling he should have tried harder.





Chapter 21. Listen to the Wind.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Sunrise finds Nine'eev asleep against a tree in a hollow a little way back from the riverbank. The light wakens her horse, which in turn wakens her. She admonishes herself for being unable to stay awake one night. Deeply unsettled by the recent events, she reflects on her escape from Shadar Logoth. She had avoided the Trollocs until she was out in the forest, whereupon a group of ten had made a charge at her until they had caught the scent of something, or someone, else, and bounded away without giving her a second glance. Annoyingly, it seems Mworane has been right all along.

She decides to head downriver, keeping an eye out for tracks. Despite never having been further from Emmond's Field than the boys until now, she is willing to head all the way to Tar Vawlyn if she doesn't find her fellow villagers.

After some miles, finding only confused jumbles of tracks that could be anything, she detects the smell of woodsmoke. Not knowing if the camp may hold friend or foe, she approaches as carefully as she can, and soon comes upon the Eyes Sedai and her Warder; she hangs back to observe them. The pair are discussing the disappearance of the nearby Trollocs and the lack of any clear sign of where the Emmond's Field boys went - Nine'eev noting LAN's lack of success in that regard as vindication of her own. Of more concern to LAN is how so many Trollocs, near a thousand by his reckoning, could be moved so far south without being seen, and what implications this has for the fight against the Shadow. Mworane has no good answer, aside from a fervent wish that none of the Forsaken are loose. Of the boys, Mworane says that one is across river and safe, but the location of the others, while downriver, has faded away due to a bond having been broken; the statement puzzles Nine'eev. Mworane begins to fret over opposition she may face, not only from the Dark One but from other Eyes Sedai of the White Tower, until she suddenly realizes that Nine'eev is watching them, which startles LAN, and beckons her out.

Embarrassed, but satisfied that at least the Warder was unaware of her presence, Nine'eev emerges and immediately begins to berate Mworane over her plots to use the Emmond's Field boys. The Eyes Sedai is nonplussed, enraging Nine'eev, but then drops a bombshell on the Wisdom, saying that the only reason she became aware of her presence was because Nine'eev is capable of wielding the One Power herself. Though disbelieving, she is forced to question herself as Mworane systematically dismantles her flimsy excuses and denials.

Mworane describes how after first using the Power, even unknowingly, the channeler will experience a reaction to it, occurring perhaps a week to ten days after the event. That reaction may include rapidly passing bouts of fevers and chills, combined headaches, numbness, feelings of exhilaration or perhaps giddiness, and the taking of risky actions out of one's normal character. Nine'eev remembers such times clearly—the remembrance shocks her to the core—but still she refuses to believe. Mworane goes on to describe an affinity that develops between a channeler and a person upon whom they have practiced Healing; she presumes that the Wisdom has in the past Healed either Igwayne or Pairin, perhaps both, which allowed her to make a beeline to the inn in Baerlon where the two were staying. Nine'eev absently confirms that it was Igwayne; she recalls how she had always taken for granted that she could somehow sense the approach of people she knew, never correlating the fact that her cures had previously worked remarkably well on them, with that ability.

Disgusted that she herself can touch the True Source like "a filthy Darkfriend Eyes Sedai," Nine'eev maintains that if she learned to survive the use herself, then Igwayne can do the same without it being necessary to take her to Tar Vawlyn. Mworane disagrees however, explaining that it is not the reactions to the use of the Power - which occur more quickly with each usage until the two occur near simultaneously, then cease - that are a problem, but the fact that 75% of those born with the ability die screaming and convulsing within two to five years after the last reaction occurs, if they are not found and given proper training.

Even if she had not been aware of two apprentice Wisdoms who died in those circumstances, Nine'eev realizes that the truth can no longer be denied. Mworane tells Nine'eev that she may have even more potential than Igwayne, both could perhaps be the most powerful Eyes Sedai seen in centuries, which nearly pushes the Wisdom back into denial; she instead settles for asking Mworane not to divulge her secret to anyone else. Mworane nods assent.

Nine'eev recalls her initial concern, and demands of Mworane what she wants with the Emmond's Field boys. Mworane answers that the Dark One wants them, and for that reason - and what better? - she will oppose it.

Mworane announces their departure to LAN, minus the Wisdom. Nine'eev believes the Eyes Sedai wishes rid of her, and states her intention to come along. Mworane considers the other woman's role in the Pattern with LAN, and regrets not talking to Min in more detail. LAN seems more diffident and respectful of Nine'eev, even going so far as to call her by name. Nine'eev, already annoyed by the pair's obtuse conversation and lack of explanations, takes the Warder's new approach for mockery. He leaves to fetch her horse, and Nine'eev anticipates her future satisfaction should he fail to find it. She was careful about not leaving a trail when approaching the two.

While the Warder is away, Mworane answers Nine'eev's prodding about their chosen southerly course, explaining the nature of her bond with the boys via the coins she gave to them. As long as the coins are in their possession, she can follow them, and while she can sense a coin across the river to the east, the two trails that passed downriver can no longer be detected. Mworane's apparent lack of interest in Igwayne irks Nine'eev, but Mworane patiently explains that it is the boys that are the Dark One's primary concern. Mworane's placidity, and her own impotence, nearly overwhelm Nine'eev and she turns away from the Eyes Sedai to cover the tears welling in her eyes. LAN returns with Nine'eev's horse, and is startled and apparently concerned to see her condition; again she misinterprets his reaction as mockery.

As she follows the Eyes Sedai and the Warder from the forest, Nine'eev's resolve hardens. If Mworane's plots and plans do not end in them finding the Emmond's Fielders all safe and well, then she had best beware of Nine'eev; if she can indeed use the One Power, she can use it against Mworane.





Chapter 22. A Path Chosen.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin wakes up from a dream of home and working at Master Luhhan's forge. He discovers that he slept under a tree. In a panic, he grabs his axe as last nights events replay in his mind. Pairin reflects that he needs to do "one thing at a time and the most important first" since that is his way. He goes over all of the tools he has and has lost in the escape from the Trollocs. He decides to head down river because Igwayne, as a weaker swimmer, would take longer to cross the river.

He searches downriver, jumping behind sparse trees in case Shadowspawn spot him and overcome their fear of water. He finds a hoof print with Master Luhhan's characteristic double crossbar. A small trail leads him to a dense stand of trees and travels through them with a smile. He soon finds Igwayne ready to attack him. He calms her and tells her he should have said he was coming. Igwayne immediately takes charge of the situation by telling him to dry his clothes by the fire and feeding him. Igwayne tells how she got away from the trollocs by Behla nearly pulling her away.

They both sit near the fire and talk of the others they haven't seen, arguing about the intervention of Mworane in their lives. Pairin talks of how the others could be all dead but decides to hope. Igwayne asks what they should do and Pairin is shocked that she didn't decide for them. Drawing in the dirt the locations of the 2 cities and their current location, Pairin decides that they should go cross-country straight to Kaymlin instead of going to Whitebridge, which is where the Fades will be looking. Pairin decides once they get to Kaymlin they will wait a couple of days before moving on to Tar Vawlyn and talk to the Amyrlin Seat directly. They leave immediately instead of waiting for Pairin to dry even with Igwayne protesting.





Chapter 23. Wolfbrother.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra and Igwayne al'Veer are beginning their journey to Kaymlin. Both argue about who should be allowed to ride Behla, Pairin feeling that Igwayne should be the sole rider, and Igwayne believing that they should trade off. Finally, Pairin agrees that they shall take turns, but insists with an iron will that Igwayne be the first to ride, suddenly threatening to put her in the saddle if she continues to argue. Igwayne smiles, and mounts. Though they continue to switch places at frequent intervals, Pairin is never really very comfortable in the saddle of diminutive Behla. The first day of their travel Pairin tries a little hunting with sling and snare. He is able to fetch a rabbit.

When he returns to the camp, which Igwayne has remained behind to set up, he finds Igwayne having set the wood for a fire but is sitting before it with her eyes closed. She is trying to light the fire with the One Power. Unnerved by her attempt, failure that it is, he offers to make a fire bow and demands that Igwayne forsake her attempts to start a fire with the One Power. She refuses, informing him that she has lost her flint. He backs down but does manage to extract a promise from her not to try again that night. She continues to try on consequent nights, but is never really successful though some nights she generates a trickle of smoke.

The rabbit is the last hot meal they have for a while, subsisting on “coarse wild tubers” and other wild vegetables. They become very hungry, seeing little game to feed themselves. Though they make good time, they see little evidence of civilization.

Two days away from the river the land through which they travel changes to thickly forested hills. Such landscape lasts for a day before it flattens out again, though this time they walk through forest broken by glades sometimes a mile or more in length. The touch of winter is still on the land and in the air.

They pass many abandoned ruins. Memories of Shadar Logoth keep them away from them. They both experience bad dreams, he of Ba'alzamon and she of Shadar Logoth, among others.

Pairin is walking and Igwayne riding when they detect smoke and the smells associated with cooking. Feeling unsure of his ability to use it, Pairin arms himself with his axe. He tells Igwayne to stay put. She acquiesces reluctantly as he moves off to investigate. He finds a lean, sun-browned man tending a campfire and leaning against an oak tree.

The man is queerly dressed in animal skins, most of which still have the hair attached. His graying brown hair, which hangs down to his waist, is tied at the top of his neck with a leather strap, and he sports a thick beard fanning across half his chest. The man is armed with a knife long enough to be a sword, and a bow and arrows. He is cooking six rabbits over the fire. The man offers to feed Pairin and Igwayne, admitting that he hasn’t seen them eat in a couple of days.

After he gets over his surprise at being tailed for the last several days, and then his anger for the slight insult, his hunger persuades him to ignore the sharp words of the stranger and he calls Igwayne to join them. Pairin introduces himself, and the strange man reciprocates with the name Elyas Machera. Pairin shakes his hands and then notices with some startlement that the man’s eyes are golden. Igwayne appears and notices the rabbits but not the eyes.

They fall to, their hunger making them hasty. Elyas waits until they have had their fill before asking them what they are doing out in the middle of the wilderness. Igwayne admits that they are going to Kaymlin, at which Elyas bursts out into raucous laughter. He informs them that they are going to pass 100 miles to the north of Kaymlin if they continue on the path they have been following. Igwayne primly informs them that they were going to ask directions, and Elyas, still laughing though much more gently, informs them that there’s no one to ask all the way to the Spine of the World.

Pairin, disturbed by the man’s mirth, muses that they may be eating with a madman. Igwayne waits for Elyas to stop laughing and politely asks the man to show them the way. That is enough to sober him up. He admits to a general dislike of cities and people in general because “they don’t like my friends.” The only reason he helped them is because they were stumbling around like a couple of newborn cubs. Igwayne presses the man who orders them to be still because his friends are coming.

Suddenly Behla panics as shadows move up. Elyas orders Pairin to make Behla be quiet, informing him that the newcomers will not hurt Behla, or them for that matter, if they do not move.

Four wolves walk into the clearing, and Pairin can see many more pairs in the darkness. Pairin reaches for his axe, but Elyas warns him not to do that.

The four wolves are staring at Pairin and he gets the feeling that all the wolves are copying them. He cautiously drops his hand away from the axe and imagines that the tension among the wolves drops. Behla quiets, but is still fearful, the wolves ignore her.

Igwayne asks if they are tame and Elyas answers sarcastically that wolves don’t tame. They are his friends and he converses with them, hunts with them, keeps them company. After Igwayne dismisses the possibility of conversation, Elyas briefly explains that it is not really conversation but the exchange of feeling. Pairin notes that for all his gruffness, Elyas seems pleased to be talking to two humans. He asks Elyas how he learned to talk to wolves. He replies that the wolves found out that he could. They found him, not the other way around. He was considered touched by the Dark One because wolves appeared wherever he was. Normal people began avoiding him and those who would associate with him were not the kind of people he wanted to associate with. He says that every wolf remembers the history of all wolves, or at least the shape of history and wolves remember a day when they hunted with men.

Igwayne finds the concept intriguing and asks Elyas to teach them how to talk to them and he tells her that it can’t be taught. Then he drops a bombshell by revealing that the wolves say that Pairin can talk to them.

Pairin is convinced by this that Elyas is mad.

Elyas once again demands to know why they are out in the wilderness. Igwayne begins telling their practiced cover story telling the strange man that they are from Saldaea. Elyas denounces it for a lie, saying that Dapple (one of the wolves) says so. After a feeble protest and a stray action by Pairin (he reaches for his axe which causes all four wolves to rise up), Igwayne offers to leave Elyas’ cozy camp since he considers them liars. Elyas retorts that he would want nothing better except that he wants to know about the trollocs and half-men. When Igwayne was telling her story the wolves could smell them in the story. He strongly advises them to tell the truth because some of the wolves think they might make a tasty dinner, also expressing the hope that they are not darkfriends because he hates killing people after feeding them. Finally, he advises them to tell the truth because the wolves will know if they do not. It is at this point that Pairin realizes that Elyas’ eyes are wolf’s eyes.

Igwayne looks at Pairin as if she wanted him to make the decision. Pairin decides to come clean and starts the tale back in Emond’s Field, when Matrim Cauthon saw the man with the black coat. It takes a long time but it seems to satisfy the wolves. He finishes the story by revealing that they are going to Kaymlin in hopes of rejoining Mworane Dawmodred, though she is not mentioned by name, and that if she is not found in Kaymlin, then they will continue on to Tar Vawlyn.

In responding to Pairin’s tale, Elyas reveals that he is not fond of Eyes Sedai, who have tried to gentle him. He called sisters from the Red Ajah some pretty nasty names after they caught him once. He also admits that he did not like killing warders, calling it nasty business.

Pairin asks if talking to wolves is a manifestation of the One Power and Elyas says no, that it is an old thing, old as humankind. Eyes Sedai do not like these new demonstrations of old things because they say that it is a sign that things are falling apart. There is a quick mention of the Amyrlin Seat, suggesting that he has perhaps had dealings with her, but details are lacking to give us any more information on what he means. Pairin admits a disinclination to trust Eyes Sedai as well, a comment which Igwayne does not like. He continues, however, by saying that because they have trollocs and Darkfriends after them they have no choice.

Elyas looks like he is having a conversation with the wolves, a conversation that Pairin thinks he can almost hear. In his own head he denies that he can talk to wolves and one of the four surrounding Elyas looks directly at him and grins. Pairin realizes that it is Hopper and wonders how he knew that wolf’s name is Hopper.

Elyas offers to let them stay with him and his wolves, saying that it would be very safe. Pairin admits to some doubt as to the wisdom of such a move since more than trollocs are after them. Elyas laughs and says that the eyeless ones can easily be handled by the pack. The wolves will accept Pairin because he can talk to wolves and will accept Igwayne because she is with him.

Pairin protests that he cannot talk to wolves. Elyas laughs and tells him that he can “play the goat” if he wants to. Pairin protests more strongly, but is interrupted by Igwayne, who states flatly that they are going to Kaymlin, and then on to Tar Vawlyn. Pairin, taken aback that she spoke for him, chides her for it, but he agrees with her that he is continuing on to Kaymlin.

Elyas says that is what the wolf he calls Dapple said they would say, also remarking that Igwayne is firmly planted in the human world while Pairin is planted halfway between. He then agrees to go with them to keep them safe and to make sure they have food to eat.

Suddenly the wolves stand and there is a confrontation between the one called Dapple and the one called Burn. Burn dashes off into the night to find and kill trollocs. Dapple resumes her seat. Elyas explains that there was just a confrontation where Burn insisted on hunting trollocs. He then reiterates that he will help them on their journey. Igwayne thanks him but tells him that it is not necessary if he will just give them directions. He insists that he will, hinting that Dapple, who is named the leader of the pack, and hinting that her authority extends even over him, has said so. He then avers that in the morning he will head south with them.

As the chapter closes, Pairin is sitting quietly. He feels Burn and a dozen more of the young male wolves leaving. He wants to pretend that it is all just Elyas making him think he can hear these wolf thoughts, but he cannot. The last sentence describes the sharp penetrating thought of Burn as the wolf bounds away, which mixes hatred and the taste of blood.





Chapter 24. Flight Down the Arinelle.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is moving through the streets of a maze, a dank, murky maze smelling of the grave. He feels like he is immersed in that smell. He notices some motion out of the corner of his eye and freezes near a wall, feeling exposed; it is no hiding place where he has stopped. He sees the motion and discovers that it is a man in a blood-red coat that ripples as he walks. The man is looking for something or someone. Rand notices that his eyes glow like two red furnaces and recognizes him for Ba'alzamon. He studies the approaching man for a moment and decides that his only option is to keep moving and to not think. Meanwhile he is musing that he is in an illusion.

He wonders about Mat Cauthon briefly and worries for him. He also mentally reminisces about the two or three close encounters he has had as he flees through this maze. He wonders if this is a nightmare or Baerlon all over again. He also muses about thoughts that he should not think, and what happens when he does.

It is hot and dusty in this maze and he has been in it a long time. He walks over smooth stones covered with dust that threaten to make him sneeze. He tries breathing through his mouth and it chokes him.

Again, he speculates that he is in a dangerous place, and has already had two to three encounters with Ba’alzamon but he doesn't remember how he escaped, only that he did. He reminds himself that it is dangerous to think too much.

He stops to look at the thorn bushes making up the maze hedge and touches one of the thorns, which painfully pricks him. He reels back, shaking blood from the burning wound. His foot overturns a stone and he realizes that it is a human skull, and then notices that there are plenty of other stones that look just like that one. He continues on hesitantly, and thinks that things may not be what they seem here, but suppresses the thought. It's too dangerous to think here.
He grabs hold of himself and sucks his pricked finger, which has almost stopped throbbing. He moves in the direction he is facing. Remembering a rule of thumb about finding one's way out of a maze, he takes two right turns and finds himself face-to-face with Ba'alzamon who is surprised to see him. The man asks Rand how long he expects to be able to evade him and once again claims that Rand is his.

Distressed, Rand mutters twice, "light help me," fumbling for a sword that is not there. He does not know what the expression means.
Ba'alzamon sneers out, "The Light will not help you and the Eye of the World will not serve you. You are my hound and if you will not course at my command, I will strangle you with the corpse of the Great Serpent!"
Rand suddenly realizes that he is dreaming. Ba'alzamon is amazed at this and shimmers away into nothing. The scene has changed. He is looking at a myriad of mirrors; all reflecting himself back at him. He sees a red blur in them which turns out to be Ba'alzamon returning, who approaches from the back, and he finds that his face and Ba'alzamon's face are the same.

Rand awakens. He is on some rivercraft called the Spray. He places a finger in his mouth and tastes blood. Upon inspecting his finger, he finds that it has been pricked and is bleeding.

The Spray is making haste down the Arinelle, but it is doing so slowly. The captain of the craft is a man named Bayle Domon. During the day they have rowers, but they travel even at night and let the current carry them downriver. There is a constant wind but it blows in the wrong direction so it may not be used to move the ship. Captain Domon is very demanding, driving his crew mercilessly to get away from the place where the craft was attacked by Trollocs. The Arinelle is devoid of rocks but sandbars and shallows there are aplenty so they still have to go carefully, even if their need for haste is real.

The crew grumbles for a break, but the Captain either browbeats them into submission, or scares them by displaying the weapons left behind by the attacking Trollocs. That is enough to silence them for a while, but then they start up again. Rand notices that this works in a cycle. He also notices that Thom Merrilin stays away from them when they are grumbling. Otherwise he is in the thick of them, telling jokes and slapping backs. But he also notices that Thom watches them very carefully whatever he is doing. The surprising thing is that they do not blame the three of them for the Trolloc attacks, but they blame Floran Gelb.
Rand remembers that Gelb is constantly blaming the night's events on them, going so far as to say that they are in league with the Trollocs. It is obvious that no one believes Gelb. It turns out that Gelb had not kept the watch he was assigned, which was the watch when the Trollocs attacked, and now no one wants much to do with him. He pleads and whines to his crew, but whenever he looks at Rand or his companions, his eyes flash murderous fire.

Rand mentions to Mat that he thinks Gelb cannot be trusted and Mat responds with the question, "can any of them be trusted?" and then seeks out solitude.

Thom opines that it will not be from Gelb that trouble comes, not yet at least. The crew might mutiny and then cut the throat of their passengers so that stories will not be told. The gleeman does his share of diffusing the tension by telling stories and singing for the crew, and to make the story that Rand and Mat are apprentice gleemen stick, he gives them lessons every day, teaching them some of the easier stories, tumbling and juggling. Even that is entertaining to the crew, all except Gelb who just watches and hates.

Rand spends most of the day at the railing scanning the shore for Igwayne or Pairin, and seeing some wondrous sites as well. Rand spies a reflection in the distance, and Captain Domon tells Rand that it is a never-rusting metal tower, used as a landmark and telling him that they are ten days away from Whitebridge. Mat opines that there is treasure inside. Captain Domon agrees that it might be so, but he then tells of a stone hand fifty feet high sticking out of a hill and clutching a crystal sphere on Tremalking, a Sea Folk island. Domon is sure that there is treasure there, but the Sea Folk will not allow digging, and all they care about is their sailing, and their looking for their Cooramoor, the Sea Folk Chosen One.

Mat says that he would dig for the treasure, and Captain Domon responds that treasure is not the reason for seeing the world, but the strangeness that one encounters, and then regales the two with sites that he has seen, including the Panarch’s palace in Tanchico, where animals that do not exist can be seen in friezes. Rand retorts that any child can draw a made-up animal. Domon replies agreeably but says they also have the bones. Then he goes on to mention numerous marvels that he has seen throughout the world, and admits to collecting not a few himself.

Rand admits to collecting bones in the hills when he was a child, but thought it might be bad luck. Domon chides him for homesickness and promises him that the world will soon "put a hook in his mouth." He doubts that Rand will ever go home.
Rand protests violently and says that he will go home some day, when all of this is over and done with, and raise sheep like his father. He pleads for Mat's support, who gives it out loud, but then mutters that Domon probably doesn't want anyone else going after the treasure.

Four days into the trip finds Rand at the top of the mast, his legs wrapped in the stays, enjoying himself as the boat rocks gently in the river. At his height, however, it's quite an arc. On impulse he stands, balancing himself for three arcs, then he loses his balance. He grabs the stay and hangs on, laughing all along. Thom, who has climbed up to talk him down, remonstrates with him for his foolishness. Rand asks when he came up to join him. Thom angrily tells him when he stopped listening to people who were shouting for him to come down. Rand then notices that everyone except Mat is looking at him, including the captain, who is obviously furious. Rand offers to come down with him, and Thom thanks him vigorously. Rand then acrobats down from his perch to scattered applause, landing close to where Mat sits. 

Rand notices that Mat clutches a curved dagger with gold sheath and big red ruby capping the hilt, which he hides from everyone else with his body. He is fingering it until he sees Rand, after which he hides the dagger. Rand asks him where he got it. When Mat does not answer, he gets a little tougher, and asks if he got it from Shadar Logoth.

Mat blames it on Rand and Pairin, but says its okay because he took it, Mordeth did not give it to him, so according to Mworane, it must be all right. He then asks Rand not to tell anyone lest they try to steal it from him.
Rand agrees, though he says that he thinks Master Domon is honest, but he doesn't know about anyone else. Mat pleads that they are the only two left from Emmond's Field and can’t afford to trust anyone else. Rand replies that he believes Igwayne and Pairin are alive. He also comments that now they don’t have to worry about money; they can sell the dagger. After a moment, Mat agrees.
Rand then asks if Mat has had any more dreams. Mat replies, "maybe."

Rand gets a little upset and demands that Mat be more specific. Mat replies that he has and doesn't want to talk about it. Just about then Thom shows up and tells Rand that he convinced the captain that Rand was training when he pulled his acrobatic stunt.

It suddenly occurs to Rand what he had been doing and he sits down at the sheer mental shock of realizing his foolishness, while Thom remarks that they might be able to use his talents on the tightrope or slipwire in Illian or Tear. Rand carefully reminds Thom that they are going to Tar Vawlyn.

Thom reminds him that things may change and then pulls out balls in preparation for making Rand and Mat practice the triple crossover.

The last thoughts of the chapter are Rand’s as he wonders what is happening to him, and an acknowledgement that he needs to get to Tar Vawlyn before he goes mad.





Chapter 25. The Traveling People.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin and Igwayne continue on their way to Kaymlin, accompanied by Elyas Machera, Dapple, Hopper and Wind. Igwayne and Behla, their only mount, are uneasy at the presence of the wolves, but do their best to hide their discomfort. Pairin has arrived at an uneasy, marginal acceptance of his status as a wolf brother. Nevertheless any reminder of what he can do causes him great upset.

The chapter flashes back to that first morning of their uneasy partnership where Elyas tells Pairin that the wolves are around, close enough to help if needed, but far enough away to avoid trouble.

Igwayne tries to make them all take their turn on Behla, and while Pairin does not argue, Elyas tells her firmly, "no," and then intimidates her into accepting his decision.

They travel south and east for three days, Elyas allowing for little rest except at twilight. The wolves accompany them unseen, except at night when they join the party around the fire. Nevertheless, their presence in his psyche is constant and he always knows where they are.

His dreams have also settled down and are about everyday things, except that a wolf is always present in them, watching lest some enemy show. This seems strange only when he is awake; in the dream it seems perfectly reasonable.

The wolves bring them squirrels and rabbits to eat every night and Elyas points out edible plants during the day's march. Elyas also hunts while they travel. Though his company has ensured that they eat well, Pairin prefers a bit of hunger to the constant reminder of his new found relationship with the wolves.

On the third day a stand of trees emerge ahead and they consider using it as their stopping point, the wolves moving out front, showing no concern. Three mastiffs burst from cover, making threatening growls. Behla almost unseats Igwayne, and Pairin prepares to sling the dogs when Elyas tells him to stop. Using hand gestures and whistles, he calms the dogs, then strides over and lets them lick his hand, explaining that they were in no danger; the dogs would only have attacked if they had continued into the trees, then reasonably suggests that they can make the next thicket before dark. Both young people are amazed. Then Elyas mentions that there will be Tuatha'an there, calling them The Traveling People and Tinkers.

Pairin admits to a desire to see Tinkers, but Igwayne fears that if they visit the Tinkers, Behla might be stolen; after all, Tinkers are thieves. Elyas dryly scorns Igwayne's words, saying that, though he's not always happy with them, Tinkers steal no more than most folks, and a good deal less than some.

Pairin urges Elyas to camp with the Tinkers and he finally agrees after warning them not to put too much stock into what the Tinkers say, and reminds them that the Tinkers can be formal.

They enter the Tinker camp, a bunch of wagons that look like small houses on wheels painted in bright colors. Tinkers are engaged in everyday activities, but are dressed even more colorfully than their houses. It is a very warm, community scene that they see as they enter the camp, with lots of music.

Suddenly the music stops as the whole camp notes their arrival. A short, wiry gray-haired man, obviously the leader, greets them and then asks them, "do you know the song?"

Elyas replies ritually that they do not know the song, addressing the man as Mahdi. The Mahdi responds in kind that they will continue to seek the song, and then invites the three of them to join them at dinner. The music begins again and the camp returns to its former, festive state.

After being questioned, Elyas assured the man, whom he calls Raen, that the wolves will stay away and not harass the band.

A Tinker takes Behla from Igwayne's reluctant hands, and introductions are made. We learn that Mahdi means Seeker and is Raen's title. Elyas explains that Tinkers are looking for the song, and if they can find it, paradise will return.

They approach Raen's wagon and Ila his wife greets Pairin and Igwayne warmly, but Elyas gets a cool, distant welcome from Raen's wife. Ila reminds Pairin of Mistress al'Veer back at home.

They sit on fallen logs, though Elyas chooses to lay on the ground. A young man joins them. Ila greets him as Aram and banters with him. Aram, obviously confident of his ability to charm, makes a beeline for Igwayne and compliments her outrageously. Pairin is dismayed to see Igwayne eating it up. He also realizes that Aram looks like Wil al'Seen, the handsomest teenager in Emmond's Field.

In an attempt to disrupt Aram's charms, Pairin comments on the mastiffs. Aram replies that they are trained in the Way of the Leaf, and then proceeds to describe the philosophy behind the Tinkers' way of life. What follows is a vigorous, if polite discussion of the Tinkers' pacifist philosophy. Elyas finally crossly remonstrates with Raen for attempting to convert Pairin and Igwayne. Ila counters Elyas' harsh words with some of her own, but Raen intervenes. He then reminds Elyas that the Tinkers do not attempt to convert, they simply share; sometimes village young people decide to try their way of life. Elyas says to try that line of reasoning on a parent who has lost a child to the Tinkers.

Pairin defends his own point of view, which is simple: hit back but otherwise let be. Aram takes the opportunity to criticize Pairin, who criticizes right back. Egewne comes to Aram's defense, who then offers to show her the camp and take her dancing. She accepts.

Before they can take off, Ila tells Aram that dinner is ready, but Aram says that both of them will eat with his mother and they both happily run off.

Pairin stands up to make a scene, then thinks better of it and apologizes to Raen and Ila. Ila refuses the apology, naming Aram as the guilty party, while Raen observes that Aram is a troubled man who may not be suited to the Way of the Leaf.

Pairin asks what happens to a Tinker who cannot live the life of a Tinker. Raen replies that "The Lost go to live in villages." Ila adds that they can never be happy.

They finish dinner, and Raen and Elyas pull out pipes and fill them with tabac. They converse. We learn that Elyas camped with the Tinkers last spring. Pairin is about to fall asleep.

Raen relates a story making the rounds about a band of The People who were crossing the Eye’eel Waste. In the telling we learn that some people can cross into the Waste unmolested, like Tinkers and honest Peddlers and once upon a time, Merchants from Kai'rienne. We learn that the Aielmen avoid the Tinkers and don't let the Tinkers approach them. Raen explains that some young Eye’eel enter the Blight for various reasons. Two years ago The People encountered one such group. Ila volunteers that they were young women, and Elyas responds to Pairin's surprise to inform him that Eye’eel women may join the Maidens of the Spear, or Far Dareis Mai as an alternative to becoming wives.

Raen returns to the story and tells us that all of this group, save one, were dead, and she overcame her aversion to the Tinkers to deliver a message. Raen reveals that along with her group, they found one hundred dead trollocs. Elyas expresses great surprise to this, saying that trollocs do not like the Waste, calling it D'jevik K'Shar, the Killing Ground. Raen continues with the story by relaying the dying woman's message, verbatim: "Leafblighter means to blind the Eye of the World, Lost One. He means to slay the Great Serpent. Warn the People, Lost One. Sightburner comes. Tell them to stand ready for He Who Comes With the Dawn." Then she dies. Raen informs Pairin that Leafblighter and Sightburner are Eye’eel names for the Dark One. Raen then analyzes the message and the event.

Elyas adds that he doesn't understand the message, and Raen says that he shares it with Elyas because he is a friend, and has a different point of view because of his...he breaks off when Elyas motions him to do so, and ends the statement with ambiguity.

Pairin tries to puzzle out the message, recognizing the term Eye of the World from his dreams, but gets nowhere. He also wonders what Raen was about to say when Elyas cut him off.  About that time, Igwayne returns, singing. He stands and greets her curtly, asking if she had a good time. Egewne replies that they were with his mother, and they danced and laughed, and she remarks that it has been so long since she danced.

Pairin replies that Aram reminds him of Wil al'Seen and she manages to keep him from charming her. She replies angrily that Aram ia a gently boy who is fun to be with. He apologizes and suddenly, Igwayne throws her arms around Pairin and weeps. Pairin muses that Rand would know what to do in this situation. He then apologizes again and reassures her that he is glad she had fun dancing. She demands of him that he tell her they, meaning the rest of the group that they got separated from at Shadar Logoth, are alive. After some confusion, he does so. She kisses him lightly on the cheek, bids him good night and enters Raen's wagon with Ila. Pairin expresses confusion, presuming that Rand would have understood the situation, but he doesn't.

As the chapter closes, wolves howl at the sliver of a new moon. Pairin muses that tomorrow will be time enough to think about the wolves again, but we are told he was wrong. They waited to greet him in his dreams.





Chapter 26. Whitebridge.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Mat is practicing the flute, and doing badly. He stops and there is a noticeable appreciation among his listeners for his so doing. Thom and Mat banter about the boy's playing. Rand joins in with a comment about how unnecessary Tom's training is, since they're just doing this as part of a disguise. Thom asks Rand what they will do if they never meet back up with Mworane and the rest, mentioning that they may be dead. Rand insists that they are alive. He looks to Mat for support and then chastises his friend when he does not give it. Indeed, Mat asks morosely, "what if they are dead?" Just then a sailor cries out that Whitebridge is ahead.

Mat's statement shocks Rand and he debates internally his reaction to Mat's pessimism while outwardly he is staring at Mat. Abruptly they end the quiet confrontation, both moving to the railing to observe their approach to the city, though Mat is acting very strange, for Mat. The sailors prepare the boat for arrival, Captain Domon supervising. Rand looks for the White Bridge, which gives the town its name. He sees it and marvels at how it looks, which is all white, and looking like it was carved from one piece. It dwarfs the busy town it marks.

Rand observes that it looks like glass. Captain Domon says that it is not, because it is never slick, even when it rains, and no chisel driven by the strongest arm can mar it. Thom remarks that it is a remnant from the Age of Legends. Captain Domon agrees grudgingly that it may be Eyes Sedai work, and returns to his supervising.

After marveling some more about the bridge, Rand observes to Thom that they made it to Whitebridge and without a mutiny, which earns him a dirty look from some of the crew.

The Spray docks. Tall, black-lacquered carriages appear by the ship ready to do business. Their well-dressed passengers board as soon as the gangplank is lowered, along with servants carrying moneyboxes. They have smiles painted on their face, but are momentarily distressed while Captain Domon orders Floren Gelb off the ship. Gelb looks hatefully at Rand then for support from the crew, which is not forthcoming, then rushes down to get his things followed by two to watch that he does not get into mischief.

Thom tells them to gather their things and while doing so, Rand wonders if they will ever see home again. Gelb departs, though he emanates hatred as he does so. Meanwhile, on the dock, quite a crowd has gathered, but no familiar faces are among them. Rand speculates that maybe they just didn't come down to the dock. Thom agrees that it is possible, then warns both of them to keep an eye out for Gelb because he may cause trouble. He says that he wants to touch down in Whitebridge so lightly that no one knows they were there five minutes after they are gone.

Captain Domon intercepts them at the head of the gangplank and tries to talk them into staying, but Thom graciously refuses, ultimately saying that they could not afford Domon's fare. Captain Domon returns his fare and provides additional money to boot, saying that repairs were not as bad as expected and offered again as much if they stayed aboard, using more enticing words. Rand speaks up, simply saying that they're meeting friends here in Whitebridge and going on to Kaymlin. Thom says that they might consider it if their friends aren't here in Whitebridge.

Captain Domon lets them go but not before admitting that maybe Trollocs really were after them. Mat takes umbrage at the implication that maybe they weren't. Domon remains non-committal, and once again offers twice as much in the current purse if Thom will return before they leave on the morrow at first light.

Thom hesitates, but Rand does not, heading down to the shore, the gleeman following. The crowd notices Thom's coat and Rand muses "so much for not being noticed." Even the carriage drivers notice Thom, but say nothing. Rand chooses a direction randomly and heads forward.

He mentions that they should look for Mworane right away, and that Thom should have changed his cloak. Thom stops dead and states that they can ask an innkeeper. Then he indicates—without explicitly saying so—that they may have to make a decision, by stating, "We have to talk, we three." He takes the lead, stepping quickly so that Rand and Mat have to hurry to keep up.

As they move through the town Rand compares it to Baerlon. He also notes that people are anticipating the arrival of warmer weather and are beginning to worry that it may not come. Their goods are beginning to show that pessimism. Thom leads them to the Wayfarer's Rest, an inn situated on the town square.

Thom orders spiced wine from the balding, fat innkeeper, and then asks for a private room. The common room is divided by a half-wall and the innkeeper says that the other side of the wall is the best he can do. Then he notices that Thom is a gleeman and asks him if he is staying because he sure could use a gleeman. Thom answers noncommittally, and repeats his request for privacy. Thom sets them in the center of the half-room to ensure they know when someone is listening, and then grumbles about the innkeeper's lack of honesty toward a gleeman. Rand notes the place is filthy and reminds Thom that they are there only for information.

Mat demands to know why Thom chose this inn. Thom replies that the road leads to Kaymlin straight from the bridge through this square. If no one there has word of them, then it doesn't exist. The innkeeper brings their drinks and promises that if Thom sticks around he won't have to pay for his drinks. Thom promises to think on it and then asks for news.

The innkeeper introduces himself as Bartim and starts in on how his feet hurt. Bartim announces that Logain, the false Dragon, had been captured near Lugard. Refugees pack the roads to the south, Bartim noting dryly that none of them supported Logain. He mentions that Eyes Sedai were involved in taking Logain, and that they are taking him to Tar Vawlyn. He spits on the floor both times at the mention of the hated Tar Vawlyn witches. He grouses for a bit about Eyes Sedai and then notes that they are taking Logain through every village on their way to Kaymlin, showing him off so that all will know that he had been taken and the world was safe again. He admits to a desire to go to Kaymlin and see him, mentioning Queen Morgays respectfully. He notes that Logain can do things and by this we know he means that Logain can channel and compares Logain to the last false Dragon who was just a normal man.

Rand listens with great interest, because he really does find it fascinating. Thom mentions that he would like to see it, because it would be worth a story that would be told for a thousand years. He asks which way the troupe went, and Bartim replies, vaguely, "north..."

Bartim then announces that just the other day an Illianer was in his inn announcing a new Hunt of the Horn. After questioning from Thom, Bartim disparages the hunt and the man who announced it, who also announced that Tarmon Gai'don was on its way. He pauses and then speaks words that indicate he was at least considering it.

Thom recites a passage about the Horn of Valere that seems to indicate it is meant to be sounded to call back the dead. Bartim gets excited and says Thom has the right story and if he tells that one in his inn, he'll have people hanging off of the rafters.

Because Thom seems distracted, Rand asks Bartim if he has seen any strangers from the west. Bartim admits to seeing some and asks for a description. Thom takes control of the conversation again, saying that it was two men and three women and giving thumbnail verbal sketches of the missing.

Bartim stands and withdraws his offer of letting Thom perform and advises the party to leave Whitebridge. Thom fishes for a reason for the change in the innkeeper's attitude. Bartim reports that a week ago a weird, crazy man  asked the same set of questions, alarming everyone in the process, before taking off to Kaymlin. The three do not recognized the person described. Rand asks if Bartim is sure the descriptions match, and Bartim says he is fairly sure about the fighting man and woman in silk, but that the man wasn't that interested in those two; he really wanted to find three country lads, and then he eyes Rand and Mat.

Rand wonders if the crazy man could be a Darkfriend and wonders if Ba'alzamon is a crazy man. Bartim continues by saying that it was the other one, who came the next day. He describes him as wearing black and keeping his head covered with a hood, but when he speaks it feels like an icicle shoved into your spine. This creepy man keeps coming back and asking the same questions. No one sees him arrive, and the gatekeepers have never seen him pass through the gates, coming or going. He's making everyone paranoid. 

The three work very hard not to let on that they recognize a description of a Myrddraal. Thom muses out loud that he would remember someone like that. Bartim agrees and says that the second guy wants the same group as the first guy, as well as a girl and a white-haired gleeman. Thom protests that its not him. Bartim acknowledges Thom but tells him what he told the Myrddraal, he doesn't know anyone by those descriptions, then he slaps Thom's money back down on the table and bids them drink up and leave.

Mat breaks the silence by acknowledging what the three were thinking—Bartim's visitor was a fade. Thom recommends hopping back onto the Spray and heading toward Illian since the hunt for them will center on the road to Kaymlin.

Rand vetoes that and reminds him that they agreed either to wait in Whitebridge for Mworane or to head on to Kaymlin. Thom gets angry and tries to reason, if angrily, with Rand, but Rand keeps saying no. Thom continues to attempt to persuade Rand and Rand gets stubborn. He thinks of his dreams and then says that he has to get to Tar Vawlyn either alone or with his help. Thom blurts out that dreams can't hurt him, and Rand remains silent. Thom turns to Mat and asks for his support. But Mat surprises him by telling him to go back to the boat if he wants to. Thom angrily answers him with indisputable points about his ignorance regarding Myrddraal and Eyes Sedai and then demands Mat to tell him to go if they aren't true. Mat tells him to go while clutching his ruby dagger.

Raucous laughter interrupts the conversation. Someone is trying to convince two others that he encountered Trollocs and his listeners aren't buying it. Rand carefully checks out the conversation and finds out that it is Floran Gelb talking with two men who were in the tavern when they arrived. They are laughing but listening, as is Bartim.

He informs Mat and Thom while the conversation continues in the other room with one man dismissing Trollocs as long since vanquished. Gelb protests that the story is true and that the three claimed to be chased by the Trollocs, but he knew better and names them and Captain Domon as Darkfriends.

Rand wonders how long before Gelb describes Thom, Mat, and himself. What if he has already? Mat opines that the boat sounds good, but Thom says "not anymore." He splits the money into three piles and gives the boys a share and states that their only choice is to run because the halfman will soon hear the story and that makes the Spray a target. Rand inspects his pile and notes that Mworane's coin is not in the original cache and he wishes that it had been. Thom explains that it's just in case they get separated.

Rand protests that he thought Thom was going to stay with him, and Thom insists that he is going to stay with them, and that this is just in case. He then tweaks Mat by saying "I hope you no longer mind me staying with you," to which Mat replies that for some reason he's always on edge these days and then asks what they are going to do.

The laughter on the other side of the wall gets louder. Rand worries that Bartim will soon put it all together.

They exit from the inn through a window into an alley. Thom slows them down until they can check things out. Mat demands to know why Thom is helping them. Thom tells them that he had a nephew named Owyn who got into trouble with the Eyes Sedai and he wasn't around to help him because he was too busy with...other things. Two years later Owyn died and Thom blames it on the Eyes Sedai. There are tears in Thom's eyes when he says, "If I can keep you two free from Tar Vawlyn then maybe I can stop thinking about Owyn." He then goes to scout out the end of the alley. He has left his cased instruments on a bedroll with Mat and Rand.

Mat observes that Thom will not leave his instruments, and asks Rand if he believes Thom's story. Rand suddenly displays his worry about Mat, claiming that he is not himself. Mat snaps that he doesn't like being hunted like a rabbit, then apologizes and reveals a growing paranoia that is gripping him, and wonders that Rand doesn't share it. Rand barks a short laugh and says that he is too scared to be nervous.

Mat asks what Rand thinks the Eyes Sedai did to Owyn. Rand says he doesn't know but admits to himself that there's only one kind of trouble for a man to get into with Eyes Sedai, but both agree that they are not having that kind of trouble.

They nervously wait for Thom to return. A tall man with his hood pulled up stumbles into the alley alarming both until they can hardly stand it, but they finally determine that it is only Thom. Thom makes light of it suggesting that if he had them fooled, then it ought to be good enough for the gates.

Thom now wears a brown cloak, and he puts all his belongings into it. The boys do not quickly recover from his startling appearance, and Thom snaps at them. He then instructs them to exit the alley one at a time, keeping each in sight. Rand exits the alley nervously, and suddenly sees a Myrddraal across the square and it is heading toward them. Rand is frozen in place. Thom reminds them not to look in his face. Rand demands that they act but he cannot move. Mat draws the ruby dagger, his face a rictus of fear. Thom mutters something but all Rand can catch is the name Owyn. He then says out loud that he doesn't know why he let the boys get him into this. Thom thrusts his instruments into Rand's hands and orders the boys to run when he says so, and tells them not to stop until they get to the Queen's Blessing, an inn in Kaymlin. Rand protests that he doesn't understand, but Thom just commands him to run. As the boys retreat, Thom heads toward the Myrddraal, flourishing knives. Rand is startled but so is the Fade, who stops and begins to draw his black blade. Thom crashes into him before he can finish drawing it. Thom shouts one more time for the boys to run. An eye-searing blue flash fills the square and Thom starts screaming, but one last time shouts for Rand and Mat to run. Rand finally obeys. Mass panic ensues and envelops the boys as the whole town tries to flee.

As Rand approaches the gates he remembers the remarks Thom had made about his height and stoops a little, but he needn't worry. The mass panic has the gatetenders completely frozen. They look at Rand and Mat, but there are so many fleeing that they do nothing.

Rand thinks despairingly of Thom as he passes through the gates. Finally, having run himself out, Rand falls to his knees in the dust. Mat urges him to get up, but Rand just repeats Thom's name. Mat insists that the gleeman must be dead. Rand reminds Mat that he thinks Mworane and Igwayne and the rest are dead, but if that were so, why would the fades still be searching for them? Mat admits that they may be alive, but he still encourages Rand to get up, lest they earn the same fate as Thom. Rand acknowledges the truth of that and, half expecting, hoping that Thom would come strolling down the road from Whitebridge, stands. He slings Thom's bundle onto his back. "Let's go" he orders and starts, Mat joining in shortly. The road is empty and Rand sometimes looks back, but the road remains empty.





Chapter 27. Shelter From the Storm.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin frets about the leisurely pace the Tuatha'an take as they travel from one place to another. His suggestions that they move faster are met with gentle rebuffs. He is surprised that Elyas does not share his impatience. Instead the wolfbrother walks along with the caravan, never suggesting a faster pace, or leaving. Pairin notes that there is such a contrast between Elyas and the Tinkers: he moves like a wolf, radiating danger, while the Traveling People move with delightful grace, devoid of danger, dignified and exuberant at the same time. They all seem to be on the verge of dancing, even when there is no music in the camp, which is rare.

The people are always open and smiling, but Pairin senses that deep-down, they are like half-tame deer, putting on an open, public face, but ready to bolt at the slightest hint of trouble, their wariness directed at both the Emmond's Fielders and also at Elyas, only more so. With regard to Elyas, the feeling seems mutual, yet when Pairin suggests leaving, Elyas demurs. He gently chides Pairin for wanting to leave, considering the hard times he and Igwayne have had and will have. When Pairin challenges his decision with "What if the Fades find us?", Elyas' answer is simply "Something tells me to wait..." When Pairin tries to question him more closely, Elyas evades, but when Pairin will not relent, Elyas finally repeats, "Something," and then explains that he has learned to trust his gut when he gets a feeling. Pairin continues to bother him about leaving, and Elyas responds with calming words, and with orders to relax.

Pairin, however, cannot relax. He is in the middle of a group of people who demonstrate not a care in the world. He itches to get away before they (presumably meaning he and Igwayne) bring trouble to these gentle people.

He has trouble getting a word with Igwayne, who participates wholeheartedly in the life of the caravan, including the dancing and music. Pairin recognizes some of the tunes, though the Tuatha'an call them by different names. He notes how the tunes the Tuatha'an play make him want to dance, even though he is only an adequate dancer. Pairin remembers the second evening with the Tinkers when the whole caravan participated in the music of one dance while a young female is the only dancer, and who seems to dance solely for Pairin. She is later joined by a second dancer who, too, seems to dance solely for Pairin. The behavior makes him blush and feel like everyone knows exactly how he is reacting to the sensual dance. He attempts to evade the dance by getting up and turning away, but the two dancers have become three as they dance their way into his view, one winking at him, causing him to remark silently, "what would Rand do... he knows about girls." A fourth, older woman joins the three, and Pairin groans, and shuts his eyes. He can still see them dancing, however, behind his eyelids. Raen, the Tinker leader informs him some time later that the dance is rarely danced, but because of his blushes, it was danced every night thereafter. Even Elyas banters with him regarding his reaction to the sensual dancing.

Pairin never really learns to control his blushes, but out of a sense of survival he does learn to look and contain his blushes.

Igwayne then decides to learn the dance. Pairin considers protesting, but decides that it would be better if he did not. Igwayne is awkward, but determined to master the dance. Aram watches on hungrily as Ila, his grandmother begins to worry after first being pleased with the attention he paid Igwayne, partly because Aram gave Igwayne a necklace of blue beads, which she wears all the time.

Pairin does chide her about her behavior, but she just dismisses his worries with a scalding attack on his personal stoicism. He reminds her that she is going to Tar Vawlyn to become Eyes Sedai and she reminds him that he doesn't want her to do so. When he finally protests that Fades could attack any time, she simply tells him fatalistically that what will happen, will happen, and he should enjoy himself while he can. She then joins Aram for a dance, and the Tinker gloats at Pairin because Igwayne has chosen him instead of Pairin.

Pairin considers that they are falling under the spell of the People and muses that the Tinkers don't have to convert someone; it seeps into the visitor.

About that time Ila notes how cold he is and gives him a green wool cloak, but then notices the axe and makes a remark about how the cloak could fit better, obviously indicating that the axe makes it not fit. All Tinkers are like that, he remarks silently. They look at his axe and recognize a tool of violence, and not of the leaf. He wants to shout back that the world is full of Trollocs and Fades who don't hesitate to practice violence. He stubbornly keeps wearing his axe. He even goes so far as to make sure it is always visible, even in the wind, despite the discomfort pulling it aside in the wind causes. Elyas sees this and smiles, as if he knows what Pairin is doing. It almost makes Pairin want to relent.

His dreams are fairly normal; some nightmares, to be sure, but they are normal nightmares, and Ba'alzamon does not inhabit them.

He can sense the wolves nearby, and he can sense that they hold the dogs in contempt. Dapple grows impatient with each sunset. Because Elyas wants to travel with humans, it must be done, but do it quickly, get it over with, Dapple seems to think. Wind also is impatient for a number of reasons, but keeps his thoughts to himself when Dapple or Hopper are around.

Pairin wishes for Kaymlin and Mworane, and for an end to this.

He dreams a dream where he is in Alsbet Luhhan's kitchen, sharpening the axe, which is strange in itself, because Mistress Luhhan would not allow such business to be conducted in her kitchen, when in walks a wolf, who lays down on the floor, without Mistress Luhhan even raising an eyebrow. Then Ba'alzamon shows up. Again, Mistress Luhhan does not notice. Pairin stumbles to his feet, but Ba'alzamon does not notice him. Instead the Forsaken addresses the wolf by deriding it for the weakness of what it has for protection. He snaps his fingers and the wolf bursts into flame. Mistress Luhhan does not notice. Pairin tries to pat out the fire, but the wolf crumples to ash on the floor. Pairin shouts at Ba'alzamon to leave him alone. Mistress Luhhan is oblivious.

Ba'alzamon tells Pairin that he cannot run from him, that if he is the one, he is Ba'alzamon's, and that the Eye of the World will consume him and then he says that he marks him, releasing a raven, which flies to Pairin's face and pecks at his left eye, piercing it, which wakes him up. He finds to his relief that his eye is fine.

Elyas is suddenly there, shaking him as if trying to wake him. Nearby the wolves are sending sensations of fire and pain, hate and killing. Elyas then says that it is time for them to go. While Pairin is gathering his stuff, Raen stumbles out of his cabin and notices the sky with a start, listening and smelling the air. He then informs that the Travelers will be taking a different road this day and asks Elyas if they will be joining them. Elyas says no. Then Raen says that they will travel east to the Spine of the World and look for a stedding, observing that stedding never have trouble. Elyas mentions the possibility that Ogier might not be open to them, and Raen responds that everyone is open to the People. He then cordially invites them to breakfast, but Elyas demurs, saying that there is no time. Raen presses, joined by Ila, though not as fervently as her husband. When Igwayne shows up, she is informed by Pairin that they are leaving. Expecting her to announce that she is staying with the Tinkers, she surprises him by immediately going to collect her belongings.

Raen finally gives in, but insists on a proper goodbye. They are hugged and hands are shaken by everyone. Even the young dancers who loved to taunt Pairin hug him fiercely, making his cheeks rosy red. Aram has a private conversation with Igwayne, where he first pleads and then argues with her, but about what, Pairin does not know. He then leaves the goodbye gathering when Ila rescues Igwayne from him. After an extremely robust goodbye, the Tinkers make a little space around the three, Raen and Ila. What follows is a short ceremony of leave-taking during which Elyas offers this encouraging word: "I will find the song or another will find the song, but the song will be sung..." This surprises Raen and flabbergasts Ila. Raen accompanies them to the edge of the camp, where he strongly encourages Elyas to take care. Elyas' words and moods are so at odds with his advertised views on Tinkers that Igwayne and Pairin are looking at him when he finishes and he explains, unconvincingly, that he did not want to mess up the ceremony. Igwayne agrees with him gently,indicating that she is not fooled in the least.

Dapple, Wind and Hopper show up radiating images of the Dark One. Pairin recognizes the essence of his dream—their dream. They start out, Elyas leading, Igwayne riding, and Pairin walking alongside. He does not want to think about the dreams, musing that he thought the wolves would protect him in the dreams. The wolves indicate that he will not be protected until he fully accepts what he is. He forces the wolves out of his head, and then in a surprise realizes that he can force them out of his head. He resolves never to let them back in. The question arises in his thoughts, Even in dreams? and he does not know if the thought is his or from the wolves.

Igwayne fingers the beads that Aram gave her, and Pairin observes that he is glad she did not give in and stay with Aram. He then asks her what she talked about all that time with Ila. She replies that Ila was giving her advice about being a woman, which causes him to laugh heartily, and which generates a dangerous look on Igwayne's face. Pairin replies that no one tells men how to be men, and Igwayne replies acerbically that is why men do such a bad job of it. Elyas cackles when he hears the response.





Chapter 28. Footprints in Air.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev stares in wonder at the White Bridge marking the location of Whitebridge and marvels, both at the legendary construction and the fact that Mworane and LAN take it with amazing nonchalance. She resolves not to stare at it to keep from looking like the country bumpkin as they move toward that city.

She has barely spoken to the Eyes Sedai since rejoining them on the banks of the Arinelle the morning after their adventures in Shadar Logoth, except for Mworane's attempts at convincing her to go to Tar Vawlyn, which Nine'eev considers of no substance. She admits to having decided to go there and accept training, but not for the reasons Mworane wishes to see her go. There is an implied but nebulous threat involving Mworane's welfare that involves Igwayne and the boys, and whether or not they have been hurt.

Nine'eev does occasionally think about what she could do with the One Power as a wisdom, but she suppresses such thought, believing the One Power to be a filthy thing. She is angry that Mworane only wants to take her to Tar Vawlyn for training, and will not tell her anything. She remembers a conversation where she demands, "How will you find them?" Mworane asserts that she will know when she comes close to the two who have lost their coin. The third, if he retains his coin, may be followed across half the world. Nine'eev demanded to know what Mworane planned to do with them once she found them. Mworane replies with a single name, Tar Vawlyn.

Nine'eev complains at this answer and Mworane says evenly that part of the training Nine'eev will receive as a novice is the ability to control her temper. Then before the Wisdom can respond, Mworane calls for a private conversation with LAN.

Nine'eev is left to glower and hates it. She muses angrily on Mworane's easy manipulation of every conversation. It makes her feel foolish and she is not used to such a feeling. She petulantly wishes that there was some way to get rid of her. LAN would be better off without her, and he is pretty self-sufficient—and that thought makes her flush. She admits to herself that being with one means being with the other.

And yet, she muses, LAN gets even deeper under her skin. He rarely says anything, and he never participates in her discussions with Mworane. He is often apart from the two women, but when he is present he watches as if watching a duel, one that Nine'eev has yet to win. Indeed, Mworane doesn't even know she is in a fight. Yes, she could do without LAN's witnessing the fights. The journey had otherwise been quiet.

At first the quiet had been restful after everything that had happened since Winternight, but the lull in the adventure seems fragile. Mworane and LAN seem to sense it, too. A part of her is glad that it has affected them too, but it also means that what she is feeling is a real thing, though she wishes it were her imagination. Something of it tickles the corners of her mind and she now knows that it had something to do with the One Power, which makes her reluctant to embrace it.

When she asks LAN about it, as he continually scans their surroundings, he says that it is nothing, and then puts the lie to his words by encouraging her to return to the Two Rivers when they get to Whitebridge. Mworane, who is also scanning the environment, chides him by reminding him that she is part of the Pattern. She then tells Nine'eev that it is the Dark One, whose storm has moved elsewhere for the moment, but his gaze is still upon them. As Mworane speaks, Nine'eev imagines she can feel someone staring at her back. She would rather have not heard Mworane's explanation.

LAN scouts their path, but Mworane chooses it as though she were following some unseen track, footprints in the air. LAN only checks the path for safety; its Mworane who decides to travel it, whether it is safe or not.

With a start, she realizes that they have made it to the foot of the bridge, and she stops her woolgathering and once again marvels at the bridge, at how delicate it looks, wondering if it is safe. LAN and Mworane, however, proceed without hesitation. Nine'eev reluctantly follows. Halfway across the bridge, she smells char thickening the air.

Whitebridge before them is ravaged. A patrol marches by, in fear. The townsfolk are acting panicked. Each of the three react to the sight before them. Mworane gets down off of Aldieb and offers genuine sympathy to the townsfolk. Her disarming manner loosens otherwise stiff tongues. They are not all truthful, even in the site of all the evidence. One fat fellow claims that a fire was started by an overturned lamp and spread by the wind. The pattern of burned-out building exposes that as a lie. Several women murmur that there was a man channeling, and that the Eyes Sedai need to get involved. Various other stories crop up, including one about a boat from the Borderlands that had chopped its lines and escaped. The boat had a gleeman. Nine'eev wonders if it was Thom Merrilin. She suggests to Mworane that some of the Emmond's Fielders might have escaped on the boat, but Mworane is noncommittal.

They eat a meal at an inn with its common room divided by a wall (marking it as the inn where Thom, Rand and Mat had gone to in their visit). The atmosphere is tense, filled with fear. About the time they finish their meal a militia man appears in the door. The militia man notices them and confronts them with a demand to know their business. LAN tells him that they are leaving as soon as he finishes his ale, confusing the local by calling down a blessing upon Queen Morgays. The militiaman is about to make an issue of it all, but after getting a good look at LAN, says, "see that you do," and complains about all the strangers. He leaves with a stern look plastered on his face. The townsfolk in attendance do not notice.

Nine'eev asks where they are going, and in particular, she wants to know if it is after the boat. Mworane replies that they must go find the one to the north. And then she says that she does not believe the other two took the boat south. Then she smiles and says that two of them were in the very room where they sit only a day or two ago. Nine'eev asks which two, and Mworane indicates by shaking her head that she does not know. Nine'eev protests that if they are only a day or two ahead, they ought to go after them first.

Mworane explains patiently that she does not know which direction they went, she can only hope that it was east toward Kaymlin. They could have gone twenty miles, or forty if fear drove them. Nine'eev tries to protest, but Mworane cuts her off, telling her that eventually the two will go to Kaymlin. She needs to help the one she can right now.

Nine'eev is about to protest again when LAN breaks in and informs the two women that the boys had reason to be afraid, because a halfman had been in town—he can smell it. Mworane expresses the rejection of despair by saying that she cannot believe the Dark One can win so easily, referring to the possibility that the Fade caught up with the boys.

Nine'eev protests that Mworane is not thinking of Igwayne at all, even when she is the one who wanted to go to Tar Vawlyn, the name which she says carefully and quietly. This makes Mworane very angry. She replies that she does not easily give up on girls with the potential that Igwayne shows, but she leaves that up to the weave of the Wheel. Mworane's response makes her wonder if Mworane feels the same way about her, which raises her hackles.

The meal is finished in silence, and they leave the cowering, smoke-stained town in silence.





Chapter 29. Eyes Without Pity.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Elyas is pushing them with cautious haste through the flat grassland they are traversing. His precautions seem to resolve around leaving as little indication of their passing as possible. Pairin muses that these precautions aren't much good against dreams, though such thoughts remind him of what they are good against. Igwayne asks Elyas if the Trollocs are back, but he responds negatively—some other fear drives his haste. The land becomes rolling hillside with few trees. The temperature remains cold. Elyas avoids crossing the hill crowns and speaks little except to exclaim bitterly that the zigzag path they take is absolutely necessary. Neither of the two enjoy his lectures, but when he gives them he does not slow down. Sometimes they come upon a ridge too long to go around, and when that happens, Elyas approaches the summit on his belly while Pairin and Igwayne wait nervously below.

Pairin reminds himself during such times that the wolves will give warning if there's danger, while at the same time wishing they would go away. After a long wait, Elyas always waves them to come on. On the third such ridge, Pairin gets so nervous that he demands to go along with Elyas, who assents with only a reminder to keep low. Igwayne jumps down from Behla, as if she expects to follow the two men, but Elyas asks her if she intends to make the mare crawl. She does not respond and Elyas begins climbing the easy slope. Just before the top he flops on his belly and looks over the ridge. The down slope is bare. The vantage point gives them good observation and they see nothing threatening. Pairin asks silently once again what Elyas is looking for. Pairin protests out loud that there is nothing there as he begins to stand and shortly thereafter a flock of ravens bursts out of a nearby stand of trees, birds that Pairin remembers are considered the Dark One's own eyes. Pairin worries that they have seen him and as if his thought alarms them, they fly southward, joined by another nearby flock.

Pairin asks through a dry mouth if that was what Elyas was afraid of and why the wolves did not see them? Elyas respond that wolves do not look up into trees, and no that was not what he was afraid of—he's not sure about what is making him uneasy but as he is saying it another flock bursts southward. He observes that it isn't a big hunt, even after..." but does not finish the statement. Pairin, however, does in his own mind: "even after the dream." Out loud he protests that back home one never sees ravens in those numbers in a whole year. Elyas says that one does in the Borderlands, although rarely, and then admonishes him to hush. Pairin feels Elyas attempting to communicate with the pack, to ask them to check their back trail, and to return to them and to watch the sky. Pairin hears the wolves reply, we come and sees them in his mind as they make the course change.

Pairin asks if Elyas thinks there are ravens behind as well, and the wolf brother replies, "could be. They do it that way some time." Then he tells of a place that if they can reach it by dark, should be safe. Elyas waves Igwayne to follow. After prompting from Pairin, Elyas explains that ravens roost during the night and then mutters that he hopes all it is, is ravens, then says that they have to hurry. He gets up and starts running, while, with a curse, tells Pairin to get a move on.

When Igwayne joins them she asks what is going on, and Pairin tries to explain, but gives at best a disjointed answer about the ravens. They come to another ridge, which Elyas insists on scouting, and when Pairin protests, Elyas upbraids him for his not thinking things through. The confrontation produces uncertainty in all but Elyas. Pairin and Elyas reach the top of a crest and watch as a flock of ravens attack and kill a fox and then head southward. This causes Elyas to demand that both of them move. Igwayne sees the fox, Pairin is running as fast as he can and stumbles. A lone raven spies them and screams as it turns south. Pairin tries to futilely sling it down but is beaten to it by Igwayne who smiles at her success. Elyas uses the opportunity to curse them into motion again. He and Igwayne joins Elyas in the trees.

Pairin sees a black mist of ravens rise far to the west, near where the wolves are returning northward. He feels them notice then ignore the ravens as they move. The ravens follow for a bit, then break southward. Igwayne seeks assurance that the ravens did not see them. Elyas provides it but also tells Igwayne to stop being afraid and start thinking if she wants to survive.

They move westward out of the copse, Elyas setting a tireless pace and they have nothing to do but follow, because after all, Elyas promised a safe place. The tiring pace takes its toll. Ravens are everywhere and they leave evidence of their devastation. Pairin remembers something that LAN told him. All creatures of the Dark One delight in killing, which leads to gruesome imaginings of what the ravens will do to them if they find them.

That image is swept away by the vicarious experience he feels when the ravens attack the wolves. The ravens break off after finding out that wolves are harder to kill than foxes, but not before something happens to one of Hopper's eyes and Dapple's foreleg is punctured. Pairin exchanges a glance with Elyas, who does not show even a hint of expression, but Pairin knows that he feels the same thing; Elyas will not say anything until Pairin admits he feels the wolves. Pairin reluctantly shares his information about ravens behind them, which prompts Igwayne to admit that Pairin can talk to the wolves.

The words from Igwayne have their effect; he feels despair - he believes he is tainted. Cursed.

After a while, Igwayne forces him to ride Behla while she takes a turn at running, but that doesn't last long. Both of them are getting exhausted, but Elyas will not slow down as he moves southward just behind the massive flock of ravens. He taunts them, encourages them, insults them, says anything to keep them going. 
The ravens behind them are coming closer. Through conversation with the rest of the pack, Pairin determines that they are less than an hour behind them, and there are at least two hours of sunshine ahead of them. He reasons despairingly that they will die with the setting sun, in an hour, and readies his sling for a battle.

Igwayne tells Pairin that it is his turn to ride, and Pairin makes a flimsy excuse for not riding, which Igwayne accepts without a protest, which lets him know how tired she is. He wonders if he should tell her that she has only an hour to live. He looks at Elyas and convinces himself that he must know. He then wonders if he has the strength to spare Igwayne the fox's death—a euphemism for killing her, himself to spare her the pain.

Suddenly, the ravens ahead vanish, though the ravens to the east and to the west are still there. Then Pairin feels like he has jumped into the Winespring in midwinter. He feels different. Some of his fatigue has been removed, some of the ache in his legs as well. He wonders what has happened and stumbles to a halt, afraid. Elyas watches them both with a gleam in his eye, and Pairin does not doubt that he knows what just happened. Igwayne's reaction is of having lost something.  Behla's is of smelling freshly-mown hay. Pairin asks what it was and Elyas replies "safety," and explains that they have just crossed into a stedding, where Trollocs and Myrddraal and Eyes Sedai will not enter if it can be avoided. Pairin notes subtle properties of the land that mark it as different from the rest of the world, nevertheless he protests that steddings are just legends. Elyas encourages them to go deeper into this particular legend. They reluctantly comply, though feeling the great exhaustion from running most of the day. Elyas tries to get them to move faster than a fast walk, but does not succeed.

Still gasping with exhaustion, Pairin asks why they just don't stay in the stedding until it is all over. Elyas debunks the idea with practicalities, and then reminds Pairin that stedding do not keep men out, no matter how evil they may be, then encourages them to continue on for only a mile or so more. They move over boulder-strewn landscape until they come to a welcoming, clear pool of water.

Pairin plunges his head into the water, and finds that it is sputteringly cold. He removes his head, shakes out the water, which splashes Igwayne, who splashes back as she smiles. It causes Pairin to remember what he had contemplated for Igwayne should the ravens catch up to them, but when Igwayne sees the strain in his eyes and looks at him questioningly, he refuses to explain himself.

Elyas calls them over to help prepare dinner. At first Igwayne cheerfully enjoys the preparations while Pairin works silently, but by the time they are ready to eat their spare rations of dried meat, cheese and tea, the group has gone silent. Pairin mulls over the fact that if it were not for the stedding they might be dead and he wonders what he would have done if the ravens had caught up to them. His thoughts are painful and half-guilty. He feels something cruel laughing at him, and realizes that it is himself, and not the Dark One, though he wishes it were.

Elyas allows a fire in an obviously often-used spot, next to an oddly-shaped boulder. Igwayne notes that a part of it looks like an eye. Elyas confirms that it is. Elyas informs them that they are sitting on a monument that was meant to honor Artur Hawkwing. After Igwayne expresses disbelief, Elyas describes who Artur Hawkwing was and some of what he accomplished - it is a mostly approving description.

Igwayne joins in with a comment about Hawkwing's justice. Elyas chuckles his pleasure at Igwayne having heard the stories. He then admits that the common man had peace and justice, so long as he did not challenge Hawkwing, for whoever did felt his wrath. He also enumerates some of the bad things that happened during his reign, including his war against Tar Vawlyn and the Eyes Sedai.

Igwayne uses this to remind Elyas that he doesn't like Eyes Sedai. Elyas reminds her back that it doesn't matter. He continues by saying that Hawkwing was a proud fool who could have been healed by an Eyes Sedai, but who refused such healing. Hawkwing, he says, hated Eyes Sedai as much as he hated the Dark One. His words offend her, but all she says is "what does this have to do with that being his eye?" Elyas explains that once Hawkwing had achieved peace and penned the Eyes Sedai behind their walls, he wanted a capital which would be a new city in a place where no Eyes Sedai would come willingly and from which he could dispense his justice. It and he were so popular with the common people that they donated enough money to build a monument. They raised it where they sat in the stedding, around which the city would be built.

Igwayne expresses her disbelief that any city ever stood at their present location. Elyas admits the truth of that, explaining that Hawkwing died on the day the statue was finished, and the empire he built was torn asunder over the succession fight. Now, none of his blood still lives, unless it be some of those who crossed the Aryth Ocean. Some have even burned books that mentioned him in their attempts to blot out his memory. Elyas continued on, explaining that Hawkwing's death sparked the Hundred Years' War, which really lasted 123 years, and during which his statue was pulled down. He ends the story by suggesting that it was pulled down because the living couldn't stand being measured against it any longer. Igwayne observes that Elyas sounds first like he despises him, then like he admires him. Elyas answers by simply telling her to drink up more tea if she wants it; he wants the fire put out by dark. 
Pairin makes out the eye and it disturbs him. He wishes they were sleeping somewhere else that night.





Chapter 30. Children of Shadow.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Out of Igwayne's earshot, Pairin and Elyas discuss their flight from the ravens. When the situation seemed hopeless, Pairin considered using his axe to end Igwayne's life rather than see her torn apart by the ravens. Elyas states Igwayne would have preferred the axe to the ravens. Not comforted by those words, Pairin tells Elyas that he hates the axe and never wants to use it again. Elyas tells Pairin that he will use the axe more wisely than another because he does hate it.

Suddenly, the wolves send a view of men and horses heading toward the pool of water near the party's camp. Pairin, Igwayne, and Elyas quickly put out their fire and split up to hide; Pairin and Igwayne hide under a giant stone hand that is part of a statue of Artur Hawkwing. Soon, men with torches search the hills. During the search, they spot one of the wolves. The men turn out to be Whitecloaks. The Whitecloaks find Pairin and Igwayne and order Pairin to drop his axe.

At that moment, the wolf named Hopper leaps from the darkness and attacks the Whitecloaks. The Whitecloaks kill Hopper. This sends Pairin into a rage. He attacks the Whitecloaks, but is knocked unconscious.

Pairin wakes up in the tent of Jeffrem Bornhauld, a Lord Captain of the Children of the Light and the commander of the Whitecloak force in the Stedding. He and Igwayne are bound and their belongings sit on a table in the tent. A Whitecloak named Byar enters the tent and gives a greatly exaggerated report of the fight, claiming that the Whitecloaks killed many other men and wolves despite the lack of bodies. Bornhauld doubts there were other men and says there were likely fewer than ten wolves. Pairin denies they are Darkfriends which prompts Byar to hit him. Bornhauld questions Pairin and Igwayne about the wolves and their travels. At mention of a Warder, Shadar Logoth and Trollocs, Bornhauld is convinced they are Darkfriends, but offers them the chance of coming back to the Light if they confess their supposed sins. Bornhauld tells Igwayne that she may be released should she do so, but since Pairin killed two Whitecloaks, he will be hanged in Amador.





Chapter 31. Play for Your Supper.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand and Mat travel the dusty road from Whitebridge to Kaymlin. Rand recalls the kindness of a farmer who gifted them scarves to help along the road. They hide in a group of hedges when the dry dust warns them of something approaching from behind. Mat keeps fingering his Ruby-hilted dagger. The dust cloud resolves into a group of horsemen patrolling the road who are thankfully not after them.

Rand recalls how they got to where they are, being constantly afraid that people are after them. When they first left Whitebridge, Rand kept hoping to see Thom come up from behind.  A small village reminded Rand of home, but Mat reminded him that they can't stay there. They spent their first night out of Whitebridge outside on the ground. They were running out of money and could not afford to stay at an inn. Rand asked Mat about selling the ruby dagger, but Mat got angry and asked if Rand wanted to sell his sword. The two friends finally ended the argument with the realization that no one could really afford the ruby.

They traveled a few nights and survived by staying at several farms and working for food. The hours of stopping worried Rand; how long before the Myrddraal catches up? How fast can a Fade travel? Mat's suspicions of other people, even the strangers who offer them food and shelter, grew worse.





After several days they arrived at the Grinwell farm and Master Grinwell invited them to stay the night. Mistress Grinwell even offered them a change of clothes, her smile reducing Mat's suspicious nature.

The eldest daughter of nine children was a girl almost Rand's age named Else Grinwell. She watched the boys while they worked, especially Rand. The infatuation made Rand uncomfortable and he wished for some of Pairin's luck with girls. He feared that the looks she gives him may make the father release the dogs on them.

After supper, Mat juggled for the children and Rand decided to play the flute, thinking of Thom and his sacrifice for them. His performance led to an offhand, flirtatious comment from Else. Nervous about the appraising look from her mother, Rand played every song he can think of with hopes to distract them.

After the performance, Mistress Grinwell suggested that the boys use Else's room, while Else slept with her. When the husband tried to suggest that they may want to work another day, Mistress Grinwell informed them that the boys will want to start early if they want to make it to the next village.

The next morning, Mat teased Rand about Else while Rand tries to change the subject to talk about the Grinwell's suggestion that they try to entertain for their food and bed at inns. At dusk, they entered the village of Arien and found food and shelter at the town's only inn. The next morning, the innkeeper called over Eazil Forney to give them a ride after failed attempts to get the boys to stay another night. Their luck picked up after the Grinwells. They ate decent meals, slept in a bed each night, and received rides from patrons when they leave. Rand and Mat continued traveling in this manner for several days and then they arrived at Four Kings.





Chapter 32. Four Kings in Shadow.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand and Mat ride on the back of a wagon into the bustling village pretentiously named Four Kings—a stopover for merchants' wagon trains and for villages in between. It is located at the crossroads of the Kaymlin Road and another heavily-traveled, unnamed southern highway. It is a care-worn place with lots of rude behavior and people who keep to themselves. The boys jump off in front of a garishly colored inn painted green. No one notices them get off. They get the feeling, because of the reactions of the first few persons they meet, that the place is not a friendly place. Rand comments that maybe they should go on.

Noticing the color of the sky, which is black, Mat disagrees and suggests that they can find an inn that does not have musicians, and starts for the door of the inn, but they find that it already has musicians and a rough-looking, raucous crowd, so they check two other inns without success. The fourth inn, the Dancing Cartman, is silent from lack of musicians. It does not have many customers, it is not very clean, nor is it well managed.

The innkeeper is thin (and Rand notes in passing that he has never before met a 'thin' innkeeper, mildly hinting that this may be a harbinger of bad luck), grimy, and challenges them in an unfriendly manner to either buy a drink or get out. Instead, Rand launches into his spiel about them being musicians, promising to fill the man's common room if he gives them room and board. The innkeeper retorts that he already has someone who plays the dulcimer, and is immediately called to account by one of his maids, who reminds him that what he really has is a drunk, calling the innkeeper Saml Hake. She also remarks that most of the time the drunk musician cannot even find the common room.

Hake backhands her, sending her sprawling, spilling the wine she was serving, then scolds her for spilling it. She takes the mishandling sullenly, cleans up the mess, and goes back to work. Eying the Heron-mark sword, Hake offers a couple of pallets in a store room and food after everyone has left as payment for their performance. Both Rand and Mat listen with uneasiness, unwilling to leave because the storm is coming closer. Rand counter proposes dinner in two hours, which Hake reluctantly agrees to, adding that if they are not good at bringing people in, then out they will go, onto the street, indicating with a nod of his head, the two burly bouncers who will do the job.

Uneasily, Rand agrees. Hake, surprised that he does, tells them to get to work.

While preparing to perform, Rand wonders if it is wise to wear the sword. It brings attention, and may be leaving a clear trail for Myrddraal, but he is unwilling to stop wearing the sword that his father, Tam gave to him. Still, he removes it and lays it across his other belongings, behind where he is performing.

They start working and are an immediate hit, soon filling the inn with a raucous crowd. The storm outside is loud and wet. An occasional fight breaks out inside, but the two bouncers, Jak and Strom toss out any and all parties involved, with lumps, onto the street. The bouncers sometimes have to rescue the serving maids from the hands of the customers though they do it slowly, and Hake then chews out the victim as if it were her fault, but what is more disturbing to Rand is that the women take it.

Rand notes that Hake smiles whenever he looks their direction, and then realizes that he is not smiling at them, but at the Heron-mark sword and other instruments they possess. He realizes that Hake is going to rob them and tells Mat so. Mat agrees by saying they will have to bar their door tonight. Rand reminds Mat that Jak and Strom would have no problem with that, and suggests they get out of there. Mat refuses to go until they eat, opines that Hake will not harm them in a crowded common room, and then reminds Rand that a storm is raging outside.

Rand reluctantly begins playing again. He also comes around to Mat's position about staying the night. The common room continues to fill up with a loud, rude crowd more interested in drinking and fondling the women than listening to the music. That is, all except one man. All the other patrons of the inn are roughly dressed. This one is dressed richly. People avoid him for some reason and he has eyes for no one except Rand and Mat. Mat comments that he thinks he knows him, and Rand has the same feeling, though he is certain that he has never seen the face before.

Two hours into the performance they break for dinner, which angers Hake, but after some bullying from Rand, he orders them fed. They move to the large, cheery kitchen. Rand suggests runnning right away, but Mat demands to eat first. Rand agrees and they eat and while they do so they overhear the women in the kitchen talk. It is about the strange rich man in the common room and his equally strange behavior in the town.

Despite the rain falling in buckets outside, the kitchen gossip inspires Rand to strap on his sword and check the carriages outside belonging to the rich man. He finds that they are owned by Howal Gode. He recognizes the carriages as some he saw in Whitebridge, which makes him worry all the more who this Howal Gode is and what his purpose is for being in Four Kings. Coming back in, he is stopped by Jak who harasses him. Rand demands to know if Hake has had enough of their bringing customers into the inn. In his reply Jak says that he and Strom have bet that Rand stole the sword he wears from his grandmother. Rand pushes by as Jak chuckles evilly.

Returning to the dinner table, Rand tells Mat what he found out about Gode, outside, and repeats the gossip the women had been sharing. Mat is surprised. Mat asks if Gode is a Darkfriend and Rand replies that he may be. Mat replies that he knew they should have never stopped here. Rand gasps in surprise at Mat's turnaround. Noting that Jak is in the door leading outside, he asks Mat if he thinks they can get past him, and Mat replies in the negative, at about which time Hake shows up with Strom right behind and rousts them back out into the common room to perform.

It is just as full, and Howal Gode is still there, obviously satisfied that Rand and Mat are too. While Rand plays the first round he is also contemplating how they are going to get away. While playing he realized that they are as trapped by the common room as Hake is as prevented from moving against them.

Mat gets up and juggles, glaring all the while at Hake, Jak and Strom, which makes Rand wince. He also notices that when Mat is not juggling, his hand is on the ruby knife under his tunic and worries that Hake will see it and not wait to move against them. Mat stares hardest at Gode, who notices it and just smiles back, arching his eyebrow at Rand. Rand has not removed his sword and Gode notices and it is the only thing that shakes his aplomb.

The night lasts forever, or so it seems to Rand, but finally, in the small hours of the morning, the common room empties. Gode is the last to leave, but instead of heading out, he has a conversation with Hake who calls for a serving woman to take him to a room. Before he disappears upstairs, he gives Mat and Rand a knowing smile.

Hake, Jak and Strom confront Rand and Mat, but with a bow Hake escorts them to their palettes. Rand contemplates telling Hake they want to leave, but in the end demands to be led saying that he does not like to be followed. He follows the toughs glumly. They nervously make their way to a storage room without incident, but find it to be cluttered, dirty, and leaking from the rain.

He realizes that Hake will probably not try anything until they are sound asleep and just as quickly realizes that he is not going to sleep under Hake's roof. He orders the innkeeper to leave the lamp. Hake does so and to the surprise of his bullies, orders them out of the room.

After they go, Rand sticks his head out the door to find that one of the toughs are guarding the hallway; they cannot escape that way. The door itself is stout, but it cannot be locked, though it does open inward.

Mat wonders why they didn't make their move and Rand informs him that they were waiting for them to fall asleep. Mat replies that they should exit through the window right now. Rand explains that Hake will make his move if he hears noise. They examine the room and find nothing of use except two wedges which they use to wedge the door shut.

They attempt opening the window which has rusted shut but find out when they finally succeed that it is barred. Mat remembers seeing a crowbar on the shelves, retrieves it and rams it under the iron frame. They try to pry it off, and fail. In the process Rand slips in the gathering pool of water beneath his feet and the crowbar lands on the floor, sounding like a gong.

Mat opines that they will never get out at this rate and Rand encourages him to keep trying. As they get ready for their second try, however, someone tries to open the door, but cannot because of the wedges. Rand tells Hake to go away, but the melodious voice that speaks is Howal Gode who urges them to open the door so they can talk, informing him that Hake and his household sleep soundly. Mat rebuffs him.

Gode changes his tone to one of menace, revealing that he is indeed a Darkfriend and that he wants the boys to place themselves under the protection of his master, because only his master can protect them from the Tar Vawlyn witches.

Rand replies that he doesn't know what Gode is talking about while realizing by the way that the hallway floorboards creak that there is more than one person in the hallway. He wonders how many men could have been transported by the carriages.

Gode tells them that prophecy says that when the Dark Lord awakens, his new Dreadlords must be there to praise him, and that Rand and Mat must be two of them. It is obvious by his voice that he looks forward to his part in that event because of the power it will give him.

Rand looks out the window and in a flash of lightning, sees that there are men outside as well.

Meanwhile, Gode gives them an ultimatum: submit or be made to submit. If the latter, it will not be pleasant for them. The Great Lord of the Dark rules death and he can give life in death or death in life as he chooses. He then abjures them to open the door.

When the boys do not respond, Gode orders a steady thudding against the door, and it begins to open ever so slowly. He demands that they submit or they will spend eternity wishing that they had.

Mat suggests that they don't have any choice. They should submit and get away later.

Rand hears this but it is as though wool is stuffed around his ears. He is thinking, No way out. The thunder is booming outside, and is drowned by a flash of lightning. Rand thinks, have to find a way out! Gode continues to demand, to plead and the door slips open a tiny bit more. Rand thinks a way out! Light fills the room.  He feels himself picked up and dashed against the wall. Dazed, he staggers to his feet and looks around, amazed. The room is in a smoking shambles. The wall holding the window is gone. The door hangs off of its hinges.

Mat stirs from another pile of debris calling for Rand, and then begins laughing, near hysteria. Rand demands of Mat to know what happened, and Mat says "lightning," and then explains that he saw it hit the bars, and now can barely see anything. Then he demands to know where Gode is.



They can see nothing in the hallway, and Rand has no desire to look. For that matter, nothing moves outside, in the night. The noise, however, has awakened the inn and there is the sound of running feet. Rand encourages them to go while they can. Quickly they gather their things and step outside. Gode's men are all laying on the ground, feet toward the opening, eyes open to the sky, which makes Rand stop. Mat demands to know what Rand sees, but Rand says that he sees nothing. In the dark, they run, stumbling among the wagon ruts, away from the inn.

Rand looks back once, to see a man, unidentifiable in the dark, shaking his fist at them, or at the sky, Rand is not sure which. Neither is he sure who it is, Hake or Gode, or someone else. The rain continues to pour down from the sky, isolating them. Rand hurries on, listening through the roar of the storm, for sound of pursuit.





Chapter 33. The Dark Waits.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


The sky is leaden and Rand, who does not feel well, is riding in a cart as he, Mat and the driver enter a village. He notes offhand that the villages are getting closer since leaving Four Kings. He looks over the side. People are calling to the cart driver, one Hyam Kinch, described as leathery-faced and taciturn, who occasionally shouts back around a pipe. Rand and Mat are ignored. They pass by the village inn. Rand notices that the people seem to know each other. They pass through the village without stopping. Shortly thereafter, the cart in which they are riding is herded off onto the verge by a merchant's train going the opposite direction, and it causes Rand to tense up. Mat is riding with Master Kinch, but leans over to ask if Rand sees anything. Rand shakes his head, "no." Master Kinch notices this conversation, though he says nothing. We learn that Mat's eyes were hurting but they're better. Mat asks Rand if he is getting better, and Rand muses that he has never gotten better so quickly after being sick, and considers it a gift of the Light, and then pleads silently that it has to be the Light. Rand is having a reaction to channeling lightning two days before, which only lasts a few hours.

They are passed by a band of the Queen's Guard, clothed in red and white and looking quite sharp. Master Kinch approves of them, and informs Rand that they keep the Queen's peace and enforce the Queen's law. It is obvious that he favors them. Curiosity aroused by Rand's questioning, he asks where they are from. Mat says, "far off." Rand says "the Two Rivers." Kinch makes a remark about how bad things must be if there are members of the Realm that do not know the Queen's Guard. Rand speculates idly on whether Mayor al'Veer knows that the Two Rivers is part of Andor and concludes that it doesn't make much difference. Two Rivers towns solve their own problems.

Master Kinch stops and offloads his two passengers. He observes that they are two days away from Kaymlin, if Rand can get his legs under him. Mat helps Rand out of the cart, and with effort Rand stands on his own two legs. The farmer notes that Rand is still unsteady and offers hospitality to the two until Rand is fully healed. Rand politely declines and asks how far the next village is. Kinch says that Carysford can be reached before dark. Again, he offers shelter after correctly guessing that the two boys are running from something, but observing that he's sure they aren't Darkfriends.

Mat angrily demands to know what the farmer knows about Darkfriends, which sends the farmer packing. After Kinch has left, Mat apologizes and explains that he feels like everyone is after them and he just wants it to be over, at the same time offering to give Master Kinch's offer a try. Rand says that there are are still good people around, but they have to keep going. Mat is relieved and tries to take some of Rand's burdens, but he doesn't let him.

The chapter flashes back to the disastrous events in Four Kings two nights ago, and what it was like as they made their escape from The Dancing Cartman. It was rainy and Mat could not see and stumbled a lot. Rand despaired at the speed they had to adopt because of it. Mat, sensing Rand's frustration implored Rand not to leave him, and Rand reassures him. Rand finally decides that they have to stop or Mat will break a leg. Mat mentions the name Gode and Rand says that he is dead and then muses silently that he must be.

Rand moves them to some bushes that have enough leaf cover to shelter them a bit from the rain. Arranging their cloaks to fend off most of the rain they sink into a cold sleep, where Rand dreams that he is back in a deserted Four Kings. The experience is a kind of strange dreaminess where only what he looks at is real. The town may seem deserted, but something waits. He approaches the Cartman and finds Gode inside, burned red and oozing. "So you are dead," Rand says, and Ba'alzamon replies "yes, but he did find you for me." Rand turns his face and finds Ba'alzamon standing next to him. Ba'alzamon tries to persuade Rand to come to him. Rand refuses him, saying that the Darkfriend will have to kill him because he will not serve him. Ba'alzamon becomes angry but says, in essence, so be it. He then offers Gode his reward for being a good hound. As Gode crumbles to dust, his face is suffused first with sublime joy, and then horror.

Ba'alzamon once again returns his attention to Rand, claiming him as his own, saying that he belongs to him and that the Eye of the World will never serve him. From his open palm a ball of fire bursts into Rand's face, burning him, which wakes Rand. He finds the skin of his face tender, as if sunburned. He notes that Mat, too, is having an uneasy sleep, so Rand wakes him. Mat cries out "he took my eyes." Rand comforts him by holding him close and assuring Mat that he won't let Ba'alzamon hurt them.

The rains continue all night until just before dawn. They get up, don their wet cloaks and continue through the biting wind that has sprung up to blow the clouds away. They pass through another village about midday and keep out of sight afterward; Rand is still afraid that some of Gode's men might be around. Shortly thereafter, in his worry for Mat, he unintentionally allows a farmer and his cart to overtake them. The farmer offers them a ride. Afraid that his refusal might seem suspicious, he graciously accepts.

The farmer is Alpert Mull, and is described as a solid man with a square face and square hands, grooved from hard work and worry. Mull wants to talk, and shares his woes with the two travelers, including a desire to see the Queen do something about the state of affairs in the kingdom. After a while, explaining that he has a wife and children, and obviously fearful of the two, he lets them off. Mat reaches for the dagger, but Rand constrains him. Mull again explains about his family, whines about how he should help them, and in the end offers them scarves. Rand accepts the scarves with a promise that "we never saw you," and then tells Mull that he is a good man, despite what he thinks of himself.

By dusk the wind had stiffened and Mat begins demanding to know when they are going to stop. Their clothes still clammy, Rand determines that they cannot spend the night out in the open and begins searching for shelter under the hedge. Night falls without finding a spot, then Rand sees lights up ahead; it is a village. He determines that they had enough money for a room out of the cold. He heads for the town, Mat in tow. Mat demands to know when they are going to stop, and Rand replies that they will stop when they are are someplace warm.

They find an inn in the village. When they enter, they find that it has a much more wholesome air to it than Saml Hake's place. The innkeeper is Rulan Allwine, and described as stout and as clean as his immaculate inn, but his prices are high, and he is unapologetic about what he charges. They pay the fee and ten minutes later they are eating a hot meal by the fire. After the meal, they go to bed, Rand still dressed in his damp clothing; he wants to be ready to run if they must.

They wake up the next morning having slept well. Mat exclaims that he can see—it's not perfect yet, but it will be by nightfall, he opines. Rand realizes that he too feels good, for a couple of reasons; Gode's men did not follow and they are one day closer to Kaymlin, where Mworane will be waiting for them. He realizes that he is actually delighted at the prospect of being reunited with the Eyes Sedai and her Warder.

They are eating breakfast in the common room when a cocky young man, twirling his cap on one finger walks in, scans the place, and sees them. Their presence surprises him and once he gets over his surprise, he grudgingly approaches their table. He requests politely to be allowed to sit. At first Rand thinks that the young man, only a bit older than him, wants to share their breakfast, but then a study of his dress convinces Rand that the young man can pay his own way. Rand allows him to sit. The man's name is Paitr and he is obviously nervous. Paitr tries to explain that whatever he is about to do or say, "it was not his idea," to which Mat growls, "Darkfriend."

Paitr has a strong reaction to the accusation, but does not deny it. Rand is surprised to see that this wholesome-looking fellow turns out to be a Darkfriend. He orders the young man and his fellows to leave them alone, they'll get nothing from them. Mat threatens exposure to the village. Paitr promises that he just wants to talk, after what they did in Four Kings. Both Mat and Rand respond hostilely.

Stuffing a heel of a loaf into his pocket Rand contemplates how they are going to leave the inn. If Paitr finds out that Mat is half-blind, he will tell other Darkfriends. He orders Mat up and then distracts the Darkfriend by implied threat. They make for the door, but Paitr tries to slow them down. Rand tells him to leave them alone. In an attempt to gently constrain him, Paitr places his hand on Rand's shoulder. Rand has flashbacks of several of his more scary recent encounters with trollocs and myrddraal and he punches Paitr in the nose, which topples Paitr to the floor on his rump.

Paitr makes threats seated on the floor with a bloody nose, confirming that he is indeed a Darkfriend. This time, an old man who was sweeping up the floor hears, and Paitr dashes out of the common room, afraid. The old man is afraid of Paitr, but he is no less fearful of Rand and Mat.

As they leave, Mat whines that Darkfriends are right behind them but Rand disabuses him of such notions.

They get six rides that day, one of them claiming that a "crazy old man" in Market Sheran, obviously the town they just acquitted, was claiming that there were Darkfriends in the village, the farmer considering it a hilarious story. Another farmer tells them quite a different, far scarier story, and the two are glad to be let off close to sundown well down the road from their last stop. They enter a village of brick houses bisected by the Kaymlin Road, and go to The Queen's Man, the village inn. Rand realizes that they do not have the money for room and board at the inn. Mat offers to juggle and then reinforces his offer with an explanation that he does not want to sleep outside. Rand acquiesces, but once inside, Rand worries that it was a mistake. The place is crowded, and it feels like half of the common room inhabitants are out of place. Nevertheless, they talk to the innkeeper, who assumes that they are going to Kaymlin to see the False Dragon. Mat juggles a demonstration and Rand plays a few notes on the flute and the innkeeper agrees to let them play for room and board. They get ready to perform, when Rand begins to feel queasy. The queasiness increases until Rand has to sit. He also begins to shiver though the room is quite warm.  He becomes oblivious to his surroundings as he gets sicker, except that he realizes that people are arguing about something. Then he is lifted to his feet by Mat, who has all their belongings on his shoulders and they leave by the back entrance. They move to the stable, Rand's teeth chattering all the while and his legs becoming weak.

Mat makes a bed of hay and puts Rand on it, covering him with both cloaks. Rand immediately pushes them off declaring that he is hot. Mat leaves for a moment and comes back with food and water, and news that there is no village wisdom, but that Master Inlow, the innkeeper will give them whatever they want so long as they do not frighten his guests with Rand's illness. He offers some of the food to Rand who cannot take it. Mat sits down to eat.

Throughout the night, Rand is racked by a cycle of chills followed by fever. He dreams fever dreams of Ba'alzamon and Myrddraal and shadows, waking up once, declaring that there are Darkfriends and shadowspawn in the stable, fumbling for his sword. Mat calms him and tries to get the sword away from him. Rand protests, attempting to explain that the sword is from his father and Mat desists.

He had several other visitations, from Igwayne, Mworane, Thom Merrilin, LAN, Pairin, Mistress al'Veer, Bayle Domon, Min, and worst of all, his father, Tam, who makes Rand wonder who he is.

During that final vision, Mat wakes him, offers him water and notes that Rand's fever has broken, answering the question inspired by Tam's visitation, that he is Rand al'Thor. Rand falls back into dreamless, though light sleep. He is awakened by the squeal of the stable doors. He is still quite weak. Mat is sleeping soundly. Rand looks toward the door to find a well-dressed woman. Rand hurriedly wakes Mat.

The woman explains that she came to see her horse, then asks if Rand is ill, offering to look at him; she has some knowledge. Rand politely declines. She ignores him and approaches anyway, noting that he has no fever. She exclaims that he was ill, however, reaches under her cloak to retrieve something. Suddenly, everything happens at once, and Rand cannot take it all in. When the dust settles, however, Mat has the ruby dagger from Shadar Logoth at her throat, her dagger is stuck in a wooden beam, and the wood around it is turning black with char. Mat orders her not to move, and orders Rand to watch her. Her hand is still on the hilt, and he pries it loose and pushes her back.

Mat removes the dagger, which stops the wood from burning, but not smoking, and gives it to Rand. It is an ornate dagger, but for all that, seeming to be quite ordinary. Mat looks at the woman, intending to kill her. Rand persuades him not to, though it takes some doing.

Mat orders her to move and she does so, slowly. She encourages them to stop struggling, because it would be for the best. Mat scoffs at this and orders her to a new place. Once again she encourages them to come to the Dark Lord of their own accord, because if they do, they will have places of honor. She explains that Gode and the fellow in Market Sheran made mistakes. She also assures them that so long as they run, there will be pursuit.

It reminds Rand of something Ba'alzamon said, "My hounds are jealous, and may not be gentle..."

Mat taunts her and she bristles and mentions that a Myrddraal is on his way, but by then Mat locks her in another room and her words are cut off. The boys decide that they need to get going, despite the fact that Rand can barely move. Rand says that he will run to get away from the Fade.

As they leave, Rand supported by Mat, Rand tosses the dagger in a bucket of water where it hisses.

With light, the town awakes, and Rand does his best to act inconspicuous. He is worried that Darkfriends are hiding in the crowds, and there is the Fade to worry about.

A mile outside of town, his legs desert him and he tumbles to the earth. He tries to get up with Mat's help, but it is no use. A man with a cart drives up, and says around his pipe, "something wrong with him?" Mat tries to deny it. Rand takes a couple of steps and tells the driver that he hasn't slept for two nights; must have been something he ate at the last village.

The driver blows a streamer of smoke, and remarks that if he were a young man, he, too, might be going to Kaymlin to see the false Dragon. Mat announces that yes, they are going to see the false Dragon. The driver offers them a ride, and introduces himself as Hyam Kinch.





Chapter 34. The Last Village.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


It is dark when they reach Carysford, and has taken longer than Rand had thought as he mentally takes stock of the time since the events in Four Kings. Outwardly this town looks peaceful, but Rand wonders what is underneath; he has learned not to trust appearances and worries about the presence of Darkfriends. They make their way through the town, hugging the shadows and avoiding the townfolk. The bridge they use to cross the River Cary is old and weathered, though it only has to cross a river that is thirty paces wide. After they use it, Rand fears a challenge from behind for a long time.

He notes that the countryside is filling up, looking more settled and tame, devoid of Darkfriends. Abruptly, Mat sits down in the middle of the road and refuses to budge until he knows where they are going, and begs Rand to feed him. Rand decides to sleep in some haystacks. Mat complains lightly about where they have to sleep, but both burrow into the hay for the night. Rand muses over the number of haystacks he has slept in since Whitebridge.

Mat asks Rand if they are going to make it. Rand replies that it's a long way to Tar Vawlyn, and Mat corrects him to say he means Kaymlin. Rand reassures him that they should be in Kaymlin in two days, according to Master Kinch. Mat qualifies that with the possibility that there are one hundred Darkfriends between here and there, and then shows that he is quickly sinking into despair when he opines that he and Rand are the only two left of the original party that left Emmond's Field. Out loud Rand tells Mat to go to sleep. Inwardly, he worries about just such a possibility.

A cock wakes Rand at false dawn. Rand gets out and divests himself of straw that has burrowed into his clothing. He notices that a thin trickle of people are already upon the Kaymlin Road, and the sun isn't even all the way up. They are mostly young men, wearied with travel. Mat pops out of the haystack and performs the same preparations as Rand, and asks about the possibility of some breakfast. Rand suggests they worry about that once they are on their way.

As they approach the road, Mat notices the people and stops. He calls out to one young man to tell them where he is bound, and the young man answers "To Kaymlin, to see the Dragon...just like you."

Throughout the day, Mat continues to ask that question and gets the same answer, unless he asks it of locals, who act suspicious, and keep a wary eye on all the travelers, and are put out because of the delay the mass of travelers are causing to their regular routines, and the mischief they may cause.

Merchant wagons are worse, people jumping out of the way of them. As the first approaches, Rand only moves to the side, and is toppled, sprawling to the ground for not doing more. Mat protests, and is knocked down to the ground with a spear handle, to land atop Rand, while the guard who wields it shouts "Out of the way, you dirty Darkfriend!" They find that all merchant carts have pretty much the same attitude. Rand and Mat learn after that to avoid the carts, which are many and seem to constantly come. One driver lashes Rand above the eye and he has to restrain Mat from shooting him with an arrow.

The Queen's Guard make several appearances, and attentively listen to complaints from the locals. Rand listens to one of those conversations, and the captain reaffirms the right of the travelers to be on the Queen's Road, informing the complainant that the crowd on this road is nothing; in Kaymlin the walls are bulging with them, then turns and threatens Mat and Rand for blocking the road in the same tone he used against the farmer. Because of the hostility shown by the Queen's Guard, Rand decides to stop Mat from stealing some eggs if he brings it up again.

Still, Rand decides, there is one advantage to this crowded road. Those who are chasing them will have trouble figuring out which of the myriad young men are Rand and Mat.

They pass through two more villages, each distrustful of the crowd of travelers. When evening sets in, the road begins to clear. Mat looks for another haystack, but Rand pushes them on, arguing that they should keep moving so long as they can see the road. As it gets later and the two of them begin to feel their fatigue, Mat begins complaining, but Rand continues to push on. They see a village up ahead and Mat demands to know if they are going to stop. Rand says "on the other side of town." Mat protests some more, but Rand pushes on and Mat finally follows.

It is late and the town streets are empty, but from a nearby, brightly lit inn come sounds of merriment. One man and a cart stand in the Kaymlin Road at the near end of the inn, the man checking the harness. Two other men stand at the far end of the inn, one just inside the pool of light, the other, just outside. Rand stops, to look for a way to go around. Mat sighs with relief at the small respite.

Rand is uneasy about the two men, and it is obvious by the behavior of the man with the cart that his uneasiness is shared. The two men are conversing; one is a black shape, unable to be seen in the shadow, the other is wearing an apron, and is obviously not enjoying the conversation. They finish, and the man shape moves completely into the shadow. Rand realizes that he is really uneasy about this one. He whispers "Fade" and makes Mat jump, but then assures Mat that it is gone now.

The innkeeper moves back toward the inn when he is challenged by Almen Bunt, who names the aproned man as Raimun Holdwin and comments on how strange his friends are, especially in the dark for an innkeeper. Holdwin jumps but then calms. "And what do you mean by that, Almen Bunt?" he asks.

Bunt replies that there have been an awful lot of odd folk passing through. Holdwin responds with a vigorous rebuttal, then explains that the person with which he spoke is from Four Kings, and is hunting a couple of thieves who stole a heron-mark sword from him. This rattles Rand and Mat.

Holdwin continues by describing these two so-called thieves as troublemakers, Darkfriends and followers of Logain. Bunt is amused by this, though it escapes Holdwin. He asks if Holdwin said that they were young, and though Holdwin has said no such thing, he avers that they are less than twenty, and that there is a hundred-crown reward out for them. He continues by saying that they are dangerous, and if Bunt comes across them he should just notify his friend, who will come pick them up. They converse back and forth for a bit until Holdwin realizes that Bunt is not taking him seriously and criticizes Bunt for his plan, which Bunt reveals is to travel the night go see the false Dragon, a trip which will see him in Kaymlin by the morning. Holdwin criticizes Bunt for his recklessness, and Bunt returns right back that the roads this close to Kaymlin ought to be safe. He also casts aspersions on the man to whom Holdwin was just speaking, which causes Holdwin to almost lash out at Bunt, but he catches himself before he says anything that will get him into trouble, and returns inside the inn with the slam of the door.

Rand hears the conversation, and, against Mat's opposition approaches Bunt about joining him on his trip to Kaymlin. Bunt's first reaction is aggression, but then he mellows and asks the two if they are going to see the false Dragon too. Rand agrees that they are, and Bunt tells them to get in. Rand climbs aboard and as the cart begins moving off, grabs Mat and swings him on as well.

Rand fights to stay awake with the creak and sway of the cart as Bunt sets a good pace. Bunt starts to converse with them about the grandeur of Kaymlin. The only thing that might make things better, he suggests, is if that Tar Vawlyn witch were sent packing. Rand asks him if he means an Eyes Sedai and Blunt replies bluntly that that's exactly what he means, naming her as Elaida and calling her a spider. It is obvious that Blunt loves Queen Morgays, but hates Elaida.

Rand wonders if it would be a good idea to contact Elaida if Mworane does not show up. Mat shakes his head, obviously thinking the same.

Bunt continues his monologue by cataloging all the ills of the time and then pleading that Morgays needs to do something. Rand makes a noncommittal noise in his throat but is thinking that he was extremely lucky to find this old man and his cart. Bunt takes his grunt for agreement and continues on with his diatribe. He says he's the Queen's man, but something needs to change with the Lady Elayne and the Lord Gawyn. Yes, he says, its been the tradition that Daughter-Heirs get sent to Tar Vawlyn for training, and the eldest son is sent to Tar Vawlyn to train with the Warders, but look what happened last time—Luc dead in the Blight before he was sworn in as First Prince of the Sword and Tigraine disappearing before she could become Queen, which has caused and still causes problems.

Bunt continues on, discussing the repercussions of Tigraine's disappearance; how it caused all the houses to join in a frenzy of scheming and how Taringail Dawmodred schemed with the lot to figure out who would come out on top so he could marry her and retain his post as Prince Consort. He mentions that Taringail brought in Kai'rienne before the contest was ended, and that eventually led to the Eye’eel War. He fathered Elayne and Gawyn before getting himself decently killed. Bunt passionately argues for not sending the two to Tar Vawlyn; send them to Illian instead—it will give them as good an education, if not better. He also suggests Tear and Shynarr as good places for training the two as well, saying with vigor that it's time to break the three-thousand year tradition of the Andor throne being thought of as Eyes Sedai.

Bunt continues in that vein, but Rand is so tired that he drifts off into sleep, where he dreams of Tam and then Thom Merrilin. In the latter, Thom comments about the Queen's relationship to the land, and contrasts it with the Dragon's relationship, while juggling on a litter that is reminiscent of the one Rand used to drag Tam to Emmond's Field. In the same dream he sees a Fade riding a horse with the severed heads of Mworane and LAN attached to his belt, and Mat, Pairin, and Igwayne bound and tied to the horse, following behind in despair. Rand protests that the Myrddraal wants him and not Igwayne, but the Fade turns and burns her with fire, while Thom repeats his discussion about the Dragon and the land. Rand screams and awakens. He is in the cart on the Kaymlin Road. A raven stands on his chest and tells him, "You are mine," and then plucks an eyeball out of Rand's head. Rand truly awakens this time and sits up in the cart, clapping his hands to his eye, but finds that nothing has been damaged.

Mat comically claims that at least Rand got some sleep; Bunt talked all night, implying that his monologue kept him from sleeping. Bunt then asks if they are awake, and announces grandly that they have arrived at "Kaymlin, the grandest city in the world."





Chapter 35. Kaymlin.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand and Mat have arrived at the city of Kaymlin, and Rand becomes overwhelmed by the sight of a great city. He is befuddled by its sheer size, noting that Baerlon and Whitebridge are nothing compared to it. He notes the multiplicity of colors and styles in the complex of buildings outside the walls. Then he concentrates on the walls, which are marvels in and of themselves. The city gates are large and overpowering in their majesty, and a storm of noise greets them as they move closer. Once again Almen Bunt praises the city, reminding the boys that the inner city is Ogier-built and that Queen Morgays rules from the inner city.

Rand notices that Mat is having a similar, if gloomier reaction to the noise, and the sheer number of people in Kaymlin. Mat complains loudly to Rand that it will be too hard to hide in such a crowd. Rand doesn't let Mat's gloom affect him, and tells him that they will do quite well if only Mat learns to control his tongue better. Once again, his speech lets Mat know that he is overwhelmed by what he sees. He even speculates that they might find Mworane in the city, to which Mat replies, "if they're alive." Even this pessimism doesn't drive Rand's sense that anything could happen in Kaymlin.

As they approach the gate, Rand notices that there are plenty of young men, travel-worn and weary, entering the city at the same time as he and that pleases him. The Queen's Guard watches the gate and keeps order.

They finally roll past the gates and see the city beyond, stretched across rolling hills, and in the distance another wall of white demarking, Rand assumes, the inner city of which Bunt spoke earlier. The Kaymlin Road, which leads directly into the city splits into two, separated by a strip of dead grass and leafless trees. The people on the boulevard are talking cheerfully, as if they hadn't noticed that spring was taking a very long time in coming.

Bunt suddenly turns down a side street and stops. He asks if Rand is hiding under his cloak what Holdwin said he was. In a very steady voice, Rand asks Bunt what he means, as he gets ready to leave the cart. Mat yawns, but reaches for the dagger under his coat. Bunt explains that he really doesn't mean harm to the boys and he realizes that Holdwin, whom he does not like, wants the boys more than anything else. After Rand responds, Bunt finally decides that he doesn't really want to know. Mat has a distinctly dark reaction to the questioning as he takes his time getting down from the cart. Between his hunger pangs and his fear of Bunt, Rand feels like he is going to vomit. Bunt leans close and tells Rand to hide the sword, or get rid of it, or something. It will attract attention. Then he drives off, leaving Rand and Mat to their own devices in a busy city. Mat looks to Rand for what to do next in this city that feels like a beehive. Rand replies that Mworane will find them, worries about the city and the fact that in it he cannot reach for the void, and then fiercely proclaims that they (meaning the rest of their party) are alive, especially naming Igwayne.

Mat again plays the pessimist, demanding of Rand a course of action if the rest of their party is dead they are found by a... but he cannot name his worst fear. Rand simply says that they will think about it when it happens. Rand silently muses that the worst would mean seeking out Elaida the Eyes Sedai at the palace, but resolves to attempt to go to Tar Vawlyn first. He continues his silent musing with remembering what Thom Merrilin said about the Red Ajah and the Black Ajah, and then out loud he tells Mat that they should look for an inn called The Queen's Blessing. Mat protests, but Rand holds fast, and then Mat shows what he is really worried about; people are everywhere and they might be hiding a Fade.

Fearing that he may lose him, Rand literally gets into Mat's face and tells him not to quit in very angry and forceful terms, and that seems to be what Mat needs, because Mat apologizes, and they go look for The Queen's Blessing together. But Mat's pessimism comes out and one begins to get the impression that it is more than just a passing fear; Mat is quite certain that they are going to die, and says so. Rand encourages his friend by saying that everyone dies, but he isn't ready to give up just yet. In their quiet interplay, Rand finally notices a whiff of spirit in Mat, and that is good, but his own words belie the fact that Rand, too, is terribly worried about the fate of the rest of the party.

They begin asking for directions to the inn and get a variety of responses, from curses to blank stares. They ask one man who is broad-faced and as big as Pairin, wearing a white armband, and he tells them they're too late, and wanders off laughing, to the puzzlement of the two boys, who noted there were plenty of odd folk in the town. In fact the town is quite cosmopolitan. Rand and Mat observe the start of a riot, ostensibly caused by polemen carrying a sedan pushing someone out of the way who didn't take too kindly to the treatment. They quickly vacated the scene.

The boys are also targets of con artists who attempt to sell them trinkets purportedly belonging to Logain, but Rand doesn't buy it and sends them on their way. They also note Whitecloaks, just like in Baerlon.

Rand thinks about staying unnoticed, but he will not remove the sword as Bunt has suggested; it is a link to Tam, his father, and he just will not do it. Lots of others wear swords, some covered with cloth, red-bound with white cord, or vice versa. Rand stops to buy some, choosing the red cloth because it is cheaper. The shop keeper curses Rand when he asks for a quiet place to use to wrap it around the sword. His attempt to mollify the angry merchant fails. Rand finally finds an alley where he can stop and wrap his sword. While doing so, Mat lobbies for an immediate setting out to Tar Vawlyn or Illian, but Rand refuses, saying that the rest of their party will be along soon.

They finally find the Queen's Blessing, and enter. Rand sees that the innkeeper is fat, and that pleases him. He is a pink-faced man in a starched apron, with graying hair combed over a bald spot that it does not quite cover. He has a ready smile and his name is Basel Gill. Rand speaks up, mentions that Thom Merrilin sent them to the inn and the innkeeper's smile slips. Noticing this, Rand asks if he knew Thom, and the innkeeper admits that he does, and, looking at the flute case and harp case, orders the boys to come with him. They enter the kitchens, where their two days of enforced fasting makes them vulnerable to the kitchen smells, but they pass through to the stable yard where Gill confronts them with a question: "What's in the case, Lad?" Rand admits that it is Thom's flute, opening the case to show him. Gill questions him about how he obtained the flute. Rand explains that Thom gave it to him, that Thom is dead and offers apologies.

Master Gill asks how it happened, and Rand gives him an abbreviated version of Thom's encounter with the Fade in Whitebridge, including the bit where Thom tells them to come to Kaymlin, and to seek out his inn. Master Gill says that he will believe Thom is dead when he sees his corpse, but quickly amends his speech to say that he believes the boys, but tells them that Thom Merrilin is harder to kill than they might believe.

Rand tells Mat that Gill is a friend, and Gill announces that he supposes he is, at that. He then states that Kaymlin is the last place he would expect Thom Merrilin to come to, unless it was Tar Vawlyn. Then in an intuitive leap, Master Gill guesses that the boys have trouble with Tar Vawlyn. While Mat replies positively, Rand asks why he would say that, Master Gill explains that he knows Thom and that Thom would jump into that kind of trouble, especially to help a couple of lads their age. And then, in a stumbling way, he asks the boys what the nature of their problem with Eyes Sedai is. It is obvious that he is wondering if they can channel.

Rand replies that neither of them can channel, in fact an Eyes Sedai was helping them; and mentions Mworane's name, and immediately regrets doing so, though it has no effect on Master Gill. The innkeeper reassures them that he can handle just about anything else except a man who can channel, though he says so obliquely. Rand assures him that they took no offense. He then asks if they can pay, and realizes that they cannot. So he promises beds, warm and dry, and food, but nothing more. Puzzled at his generosity, Rand thanks him. And Basel Gill explains that Thom is a good friend, hot headed but still a good friend. He then advises the boys not to speak of their involvement with Eyes Sedai at this time, explaining that the temper of the city makes such relationships unhealthy, and not just from Whitecloaks.

Mat takes the opportunity to mutter an epithet about Eyes Sedai, and Master Gill snaps, "Watch your tongue!" Angrily, he explains that guardsmen have been punishing those who speak against Eyes Sedai, and Whitecloaks have been harassing those who speak for Eyes Sedai, and he doesn't want Mat's irresponsible tongue to be the reason why either group attacks his inn. Having vented, he then says much more quietly that it probably wouldn't be a bad idea if they didn't mention Thom Merrilin, either, explaining that both the guard and the Queen have long memories.

Master Gill doesn't explain why he said what he said, but he does reveal that at one point, Thom was court-bard for Kaymlin, and known by every court from Tear to Maradon. He then explains that it was not long after Taringail Dawmodred died that the trouble with Thom's nephew arose. Thom got closer to the Queen than was proper, but the Queen was a widow and Thom was in his prime. Morgays has a temper, and Thom took off when he learned the trouble his nephew was in, giving her cause to be angry. The Queen didn't like his leaving or his meddling in Eyes Sedai affairs, Master Gill explains, and when he came back, he said some words—things you don't say to someone with Morgays's spirit. Elaida, Master Gill explains, was also against him, and Thom left half a step ahead of prison, and perhaps the headman's axe, and the writ still stands, he says.

Rand suggests that maybe people have forgotten. Master Gill shakes his head and notes that Gareth Bryne was very unhappy with Thom, and he notes that Queen Morgays never forgets anything. In fact, after Thom left, the whole city walked softly for a whole month. Then he opines that there are plenty of other guardsmen around who remember, and suggests once again that Rand and Mat hold close to their chests their friendship with Thom. He then offers to feed the two starving boys.





Chapter 36. Web of the Pattern.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


The innkeeper of the Queen's Blessing in Kaymlin, Master Gill, provides Rand and Mat with a small meal while Rand explains that they are there to meet the rest of their group, from whom they have become separated, and that they are pursued by darkfriends. Rand does not mention Myrddraal or Trollocs because many people believe they do not exist. Because of their friendship with Thom, Master Gill advises them against approaching the queen's Eyes Sedai advisor, Elaida, or the queen's guards; he also complains of the sudden plague of rats in the city. 

Mat bemoans to Rand that Mworane, Pairin and Igwayne appear not to be in Kaymlin and are probably dead while Rand ponders the Dark One using vermin, including rats, as eyes. After their meal, a pretty maid takes them to their attic room and shows an interest in Rand, who does nothing but wish that he had Pairin's way with girls. Mat throws himself onto his bed while Rand leaves to avoid Mat's sullen withdrawal. 

Rand notices a Queen's Guardsman briefly check the main room in the inn, which he is assured is normal, before he goes to the inn's library, looking for somewhere quiet to sit. He is amazed by the number of books in the library.

There he meets the Ogier Loial, whom he initially and briefly mistakes for a Trolloc. Loial introduces himself and says that Rand's reaction is not unusual for humans; he explains that he left his stedding without permission from his elders, who consider him hot-headed, at the tender age of ninety. He left to read more books and to see the world, especially the Ogier groves, most of which are now gone. Loial initially thinks that Rand is an Aielman, but Rand says he is from the Two Rivers, which Loial knows as Manetheren. Loial assumes his mistake is due to the world changing quickly while the Ogier remain in their steddings. Rand then tells his story and after listening, Loial states that Rand is tahveeren and because of that, he wishes to travel with him. Rand declines but they agree to talk again and maybe play a game of stones.





Chapter 37. The Long Chase.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev is alone in a night forest, holding the reins of three horses waiting for Mworane and LAN. Mandarb is one of the horses, and showing unusual tolerance for her proximity, and she presumes it is because LAN himself gave her the reins. She pats the nose of her own horse, and Aldieb, noticing, tries to steal some affection for herself. Nine'eev is impatient and irritable because the two have left her in the dark as to what they intend.  

Nine'eev spends some time remembering that after Whitebridge, the three followed a portion of the Kaymlin Road that was almost deserted except for a few travelers. They continued until Mworane was forced to choose to look for the one of the boys about which she was certain. She led the party of three north into the forest. Nine'eev's thoughts reveal that, because of Whitebridge, she is beginning to come around to Mworane's way of thinking and such realization is not comforting to her. She remembers following the two reluctantly into the forest, LAN looking back at her frequently, while never leaving Mworane's side.  

Mworane was following the pull of the coin she gave to one of the three (thought she does not know which), and one night she announced that the pull was gone. Nine'eev worried that the bearer is dead but Mworane assured her that all it meant was that the bearer no longer carries it, and said that they will keep on the way they are going and when she gets close enough she will be able to find him without the coin. Later that night Mworane announced that he has the coin back and all will be well, then promptly went to sleep. Nine'eev was unable to will herself to sleep, as she kept thinking about bad things happening.  

The touch of LAN's hand on her arm brings her back abruptly into the present. LAN takes no notice of her startlement and simply says, "you are needed," hobbles the horses, grasps her hand and heads off into the night. She marvels at his woodcraft and his strength as he pulls her through the forest.  

They come to a rise and both sink to the ground next to Mworane. In the distance are tents. LAN reveals that they are Whitecloaks, two hundred of them, and one of the boys is with them. LAN reveals that he went into the camp to find him, and find him he does, under guard. She asks him how they are going to free him, and marvels at the fact that her voice is so assured that LAN will accomplish the task.  
LAN reveals that he can bring him out but doubts that the boy will be in any shape for stealth. He then offers a plan and asks for Nine'eev's help, who gives it willingly. LAN wants her to make it over to the horse picket lines, and cut the lines almost all the way through so that the horses can break free when Mworane creates her diversion. Nine'eev agrees to do it. LAN also mention that there are wolves about tonight but they shouldn't bother her. She replies with sweet sarcasm that she would not have known that; she grew up around shepherds.  

Mworane grabs her arm with as much strength as LAN just before she takes off and tells her to be careful and return as quickly as she can, because she, too, is part of the Pattern. Nine'eev rubs the spot where Mworane had grabbed it, but surreptitiously; she does not want the Eyes Sedai to know it hurt. Then she notices that LAN has already departed and she silently curses the man for being so good at what he does.  

Her initial movement is fast, but she slows down, reminding herself that she is not in competition with the Warder, to which an inner voice says, "Oh no?" but she ignores it. She makes her way through the woods, reminding herself that what she does is not a child's game, and is relieved to finally smell horse.

She is almost surprised by two Whitecloaks, who are making their rounds, but manages to evade them. She stays where she is until she has observed their rounds twice, which are regular as clockwork. On their third round, she makes a run for it, and manages to get to the horses without disturbing them. She gets to the picket line and one horse raises its head and she almost panics. Just one whinny, she thinks as she slices almost all the way through the rope, but the whinny never comes. She cuts picket line after picket line until she accidentally cuts herself and stifles a yelp. She decides to quit after that because she may have given herself away, deciding that she has cut enough of the ropes. But as she contemplates such action, LAN haunts her thoughts, knowing that out loud he would approve her caution, while silently wishing she had done more. In the end she decides to try for the final picket line and is surprised to find Behla, Igwayne's horse, and that means the girl is there too, with whatever one of the three boys that Mworane senses. After a bit of mental hand-wringing, she decides to get Behla so that they will not have to double-up riding, reasoning that if they have to double, some Whitecloaks will catch up and that means people would die. She is sure of that as if she were listening to the wind, and that scares her because it reminds her that she may very well be Eyes Sedai material, but it also calms her trembling. She unties Behla and that wakes the horse, but words of comfort keep the horse from making a disturbance. She also grabs the reins of the next horse, worrying that it will make noise, but it does not.  

She wishes for Mworane to do her thing right now, and like answer to prayer, that's exactly what happens. Lightning and thunder crash close to where the horses are tied up and all the horses go mad with fear. Nine'eev is too busy to exult because the horses are pulling in opposite directions in their attempts to run away. At the second bolt of lightning, somehow she manages to keep hold of the reins, to mount Behla and, with the other horse's rein wrapped around her arm, watches as a gray shadow tears past, ignoring her and her horses while snapping at the other horses, causing even more panic. Nine'eev blames this on Mworane as well. She then sees a second shadow joining the first and decides to get out of there. Behla needs no encouragement to leave the area and the second horse is happy to follow so long as they can leave this horrifying scene.





Chapter 38. Rescue.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin is a bound captive of the Whitecloaks chafing against his captivity. He and Igwayne share a tent where they sit, back-to-back to preserve their body heat. Igwayne sleeps the sleep of exhaustion. Although just as exhausted, he cannot sleep. He aches from the day's travels, walking behind a horse with a halter around his neck.

Because of a lack of remounts, lost back in the stedding, the column cannot move all that fast, and the Whitecloaks blame the Emmond's Fielders for their slowness. He recognizes his chance of survival as precarious. Both he and Igwayne traveled every day with the knowledge that one misstep could kill them.

He could not sleep because he kept thinking about the things that Byar promised him awaited them in Amador. Byar mentions in an emotionless monotone hot irons, and pincers and knives slicing skin and Pairin just can't believe that people do that to other people, but the way Byar said it so matter-of-factly has finally convinced Pairin that he is telling the truth.

He is guarded by two Whitecloaks, but they look at the two of them as if they are guarding filth-soaked monsters, and they are only doing what every other Whitecloak does. He wonders how he is going to convince them that he is not a Darkfriend, but concludes that in the end he will probably admit to being one just to make the Questioners stop.

Byar comes for him, carrying Pairin's axe which he has appropriated from the boy. Byar kicks him heavily and orders him to wake up even though it is plain that Pairin is not asleep. Pairin replies that he is awake to prevent another of Byar's kicks. As Byar checks to ensure that the ropes that bind him are still tight, Pairin quickly calls for Igwayne to wake up before Byar attacks her, though Byar shows no frustration for him doing so. Byar seems to go out of his way only to cause Pairin pain because he killed two Whitecloaks, though Pairin does not remember doing so. Byar accuses them of being Darkfriends, and Igwayne denies it "for the hundredth time." For once Byar ignores the denial instead of punishing it with a lecture or worse.

Instead Byar squats and tells Pairin that he is slowing them down and Captain Jeffrem Bornhauld, who needs to reach Kaymlin by a certain date, is caught in a dilemma. He tempts Pairin with escape by words and by tossing a sharpened stone down on the ground—the stone could be used to cut their bonds. Pairin senses a trap and begins to request an audience with someone—probably with Captain Bornhauld, but we never find out who, because about then, the thought blossoms in his mind, help comes.

It startles him enough that it derails his train of thought, but leads to the revelation that Elyas is alive, if wounded, and so is Dapple, which makes him grin. Byar asks to know what he is thinking, which causes Pairin's thoughts to cascade one way and the other. Byar watching, decides, Pairin can tell, that death is the only option for the two Darkfriends, and is about to say so when the two guards outside the tent are attacked. Byar is then attacked by someone who resolves himself into LAN. The Warder easily overcomes the Whitecloak and extinguishes the lamp brought in by Byar.

LAN frees them both and pronounces the Whitecloak alive. Pairin reluctantly retrieves his axe from Byar and two white cloaks from the guards. Momentarily losing his way, LAN calls out "here" and Pairin reorients himself on the man's voice. LAN orders the two of them to put the cloaks on with an admonition that they are not out of trouble yet.

LAN orders them to hold hands and then wait. They wait nervously until lightning pours from the sky so closely that the hair on Pairin's arms stand up. This is the cue that LAN has been waiting for and he leads the two forth.

The camp has broken out in pandemonium and the three of them make their way out of the camp at a trot. No Whitecloak stops them because of the purloined cloaks.

The ground becomes uneven and Pairin feels the slap of branches as they move into the forest. They finally meet with Mworane who comments that Nine'eev has not shown up and may have done something foolish. LAN immediately turns around but is commanded by Mworane to hold his place. In the end she must speak forcefully to the Warder to keep him from turning back for the young woman, using his full title for the first time in front of Pairin, who marvels.

The tableau does not last long as Nine'eev finally appears, riding one horse and leading another. Igwayne immediately recognizes Behla, her horse from home, while Nine'eev confesses that she had trouble finding them. She gets down from Behla and heads toward the Emmond's Fielders but LAN stops her by grabbing her arm, she stares up at him.

Mworane reminds LAN that they have to go. LAN releases her and Nine'eev continues her trip to the two former captives, giving a low laugh that puzzles Pairin. Noticing that Rand and Mat are not with them he asks Mworane where they are, and she replies, "Elsewhere." Nine'eev swears coarsely at that remark and Mworane offers up a hope that the Light is taking care of them.

LAN brusquely orders them to get a move on or the Whitecloaks will be upon them. Pairin scrambles up onto the bare back of one of the horses that Nine'eev had obtained. As they start out, Pairin hears in his mind the words, One day again, a thought from Dapple indicating that the pack and Pairin will meet again but for now, they must leave. The idea brings sadness to Pairin, for mixed reasons.

LAN leads them south in the cover of night, leaving them twice and upon return, reporting no pursuit. Igwayne and Nine'eev begin a quiet, if convival conversation, Nine'eev sometimes looking back at Pairin who just waves, but more often wonders what is to come.

Close to dawn, Mworane finally calls a halt and LAN allows them to rid themselves of the white cloaks. Igwayne finally insists on being told where Rand and Mat are, and Mworane says that she thinks they are in Kaymlin, to which Nine'eev makes disbelieving noises. In response Mworane promises that she will find them.

They have breakfast and Nine'eev doctors Igwayne. Then she insists on doing the same to Pairin, ordering him to take off his shirt. What they all see makes her gasp. His chest is a mass of purple, brown and yellow bruises. The pain that had been kept at bay by the wolves comes flooding back. Nine'eev demands to know how he could have disliked Pairin so, to which Pairin replies silently, I killed two men. Aloud he says, "I don't know."

Nine'eev applies the greasy ointment and it feels both hot and cold at the same time. His bruises practically disappear and the pain does indeed disappear. Nine'eev upbraids him for looking surprised and tells him that he can go to her next time. He replies that he wasn't surprised, only glad. Then he asks what happened to Rand and Mat. Obviously brimming with hostility, Nine'eev reports that Mworane (using the pronoun she) says that they will be found in Kaymlin because they're too important not to be. Pairin grins, assured that although the Wisdom might have changed, Nine'eev was still the same.

Nine'eev suddenly notices the yellow eyes and, feeling his face with the back of both hands protests that it can't be yellow fever because he would not be able to stand. Mworane has been listening in and asks "yellow?" She, too looks at Pairin's eyes, and mumbles some mystical words about them not being predictable and part of the Pattern. Nine'eev asks if Mworane can help him. Pairin protests that if they are going to talk about him, they should talk to him. The two women ignore him. Mworane continues by saying that Pairin is not ill and what has happened will not harm him, but changes her statement to will not harm him directly.

Nine'eev protests that that's not good enough, but Mworane simply replies with "what is, is." She then bids them get some sleep, telling them that they must be up at first light, finishing her statement that they must reach Kaymlin quickly.

Pairin suddenly realizes that Mworane knows about his condition, about the wolves and everything, and she thinks that it could be through the hand of the Dark One. As he redresses, that thought chills him to the bone. LAN sits down next to them and they discuss the situation, LAN mentioning that he knows Elyas Machera and revealing that Machera taught him much about the Blight and swordsmanship, before what happened happened, and mumbles the name of the Red Ajah. Pairin notes that for the first time LAN seems unsure of himself. Pairin admits that he has heard of the Red Ajah.

LAN tells him that most of what he has heard about the Red Ajah is wrong. He reveals that in Tar Vawlyn there are factions about how to fight the Dark One and ends the statement with a request about Machera's health. Pairin tells him what he knows and then asks LAN if his yellow eyes are from the Dark One. After some uneasy hesitation, LAN answers that in of it self, it is not. He says that it was old and lost long before the Dark One was found. He continues by discussing the Great Web and the three's part in it and wonders on whose side they fall.

Pairin immediately protests that the Dark One cannot touch them unless they name him and immediately he thinks of the dreams of Ba'alzamon, but insists one final time that he can't. LAN pronounces the Emmond's Fielders, "rock-hard stubborn." And then expostulates about the possibility that they may be at the end of an age, or even the end of time. He then speaks reassuringly that Pairin now has friends around him, and that even the Dark One cannot oppose what the Wheel weaves. He will be fine because of his stubbornness and because Mworane is watching over him. But then he reminds him that they must find his friends (meaning Mat and Rand) because they do not have an Eyes Sedai watching over them.

Their conversation and the chapter ends with a back-and-forth about the importance of finding them.







Chapter 39. Weaving of the Web.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand and Mat have been in Kaymlin for several days. Today is the day that Logain is brought into town. Rand is going to go see Logain. He asks Mat if he wants to go as well, but Mat declines. Mat keeps calling Loial a Trolloc despite Rand's insistence that he is an Ogier. It seems that Mat has not been out of their room since they arrived. Master Gill had told Rand of a woman named Mother Grubb who sounded a bit like a Wisdom, but Rand does not visit her to avoid trouble. Thanks to the Whitecloaks in the city, people in Kaymlin are paranoid of Darkfriends and the Dragon's Fang is often seen on doors. 

He meets Master Gill at the foot of the stairs and Master Gill says he heard that some beggar is looking for him and Mat and that there are rumors of strange shapes creeping around outside the city at night. Master Gill recommends leaving by the back way, which Rand does. At the end of the alley is Lamgwin who has been hired to help keep the inn safe. Rand has found out the meanings of the red and white cloth that everyone is wearing. The red is support for Queen Morgays and white is for those who believe her involvement with the Eyes Sedai is to blame for everything going wrong. 

The outer part of the city which contains the Queen's Blessing is called the New City. He makes his way into the Inner City and finds a spot to watch for Logain. He is not there for long before a beggar bursts through the crowd on the other side of the street. The beggar looks around and then points directly at Rand. Rand backs out of the crowd and runs the other way. He runs away for a while, then starts looking for a different place to view the procession. He finally finds a wall where he thinks he can see Logain pass by and he scrambles to the top of it. He scrapes his hands and knees on the way up. He is just in time as the procession comes into view. Eventually Logain comes into view on a wagon inside a large cage with iron bars. There are two Eyes Sedai at each corner shielding him. They are accompanied by a dozen Warders. Logain has the presence of a king. The crowd goes quiet as he passes and then resumes screaming after he passes. Logain throws his head back and laughs and then his wagon enters the Palace grounds. He wonders aloud "Why were the Eyes Sedai watching him?" A girl's nearby voice says "They're keeping him from touching the True Source, silly." He is startled, falls off the wall, and gets knocked unconscious.





Chapter 40. The Web Tightens.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.




Rand sits at a table with Logain, the False Dragon, and Mworane in silence. The room around them fades to gray. The pair vanish, replaced by Ba'alzamon. Rand's body hums, inside his head, louder and louder until...





Rand wakes up with a headache and recalls his fall from wall where he watched the Eyes Sedai march Logain through Kaymlin. A girl dressed in rich clothes kneels beside him and he cannot help but compare her beauty to Igwayne's. A sound announces the approach of another, a boy around Rand's age dressed as richly as the girl. Through their discussion, Rand learns that their names are Elayne and Gawyn. In a slight panic, Rand tries to stand so he can climb back over the wall when a wave of dizziness strikes him. Elayne treats his injuries as is her hobby with hurt animals. As they talk of personal issues, Rand finally asks who their mother is. Gawyn tells him that she is "Morgays, by the Grace of the Light, Queen of Andor, Defender of the Realm, Protector of the People, High Seat of House Trakand."





The shock appears to cure his dizziness as he races to his feet and tries to leave. Gawyn asks his name, perplexed by his features and accent, and appears surprised by the answer. A voice interrupts their conversation. Galaad appears ready to defend his siblings from the intruder but Elayne and Gawyn defend Rand, granting him guest right. An argument ensues, ending with Elayne's rude dismissal of Galaad. Galaad leaves and the siblings agree that Rand should leave before Galaad reports his presence to the Queen's Guards. Elayne insists that Rand use a gate rather than climb back up, however, and in this delay the guards appear.

The guards surround Rand with swords and bows drawn. Elayne and Gawyn shield Rand with arms raised. Elayne challenges Guardsman-Lieutenant Tallanvor, an officer, but must accept escort when another guardsman arrives with orders to take Rand and the siblings to the queen. Rand notices the garden untouched by the extended winter as the guards lead the group through a maze of corridors before reaching an audience chamber. Rand follows behind Elayne, mimicking Gawyn's actions through the introduction, but peeking to see the queen, her general, and Eyes Sedai advisor. The queen admonishes the siblings for their disobedience. The Eyes Sedai joins her, focusing on Elayne. Rand realizes she must be Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan of whom he had previously heard. He does not know that she is of the Red Ajah, however.

Elayne gives her mother a premeditated speech that meeting Rand has helped her learn more about their subjects and realm. Morgays dismisses the notion with a confession that the Two Rivers probably doesn't even know that they are a part of Andor. The comment about the Two Rivers sparks Elaida's interest as she studies the differences between typical folk from western Andor and Rand. She approaches Rand and bares the heron mark on his sword, which was previously wrapped with a red cloth, for all to see. Her comments about the sword prompt every man in the audience to reach for swords. The Eyes Sedai appears unconcerned and continues to question Rand, intrigued by the list of coincidences that led him here. The Eyes Sedai's constant interrogation angers Rand and he begins to conceal the truth from her. Elaida, under command from the queen, Foretells a dark future of Andor, one of pain and division. More quietly, with nobody else able to hear, she also Foretells to Rand that the entire world will see pain and division and Rand will be at the center of it.

Morgays asks for Gareth Bryne's advice on the matter. Bryne says that he believes Rand's story about being in the palace by accident and dismisses Elaida's public Foretelling as a rather obvious trajectory for the realm; nonetheless, he advises that Rand be imprisoned for a short while until Elayne and Gawyn leave the city with the Eyes Sedai journeying to Tar Vawlyn with Logain. Elaida agrees that holding Rand for a few weeks would give her good time to examine him further. Morgays weighs the advice of Elaida and Gareth Bryne in regards to Rand's fate and decides to free him against both their wishes, as there has been too much unfounded suspicion about Darkfriends and the like in Kaymlin and she will not be part of it. After Rand swears under the Light that he means no harm to them, Morgays dismisses him and gathers her advisers to speak about the problem with Whitecloaks in her city.

Rand follows the guards walking him out in a thoughtful state and barely notices it when they reach a small sally-port. He says goodbye to the royal siblings but not before receiving two final shocks. The Daughter-Heir admits that she finds him handsome, while Gawyn explains that with a shoufa wrapped around his head that he would look like an Aielman.





Chapter 41. Old Friends and New Threats.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.





Rand enters The Queen's Blessing breathlessly from running all the way from the palace. Lamgwin directs Rand to the library and Basel Gill after telling of an attempt to steal the inn's cats. He finds Master Gill and Loial playing stones and tells them about the beggar that's been following him and an unbelievable tale about meeting the Queen of Andor. As Rand lays out the details, Master Gill's disbelief changes into worry. He tells Rand to get Mat and prepare to leave the city before Elaida decides to hunt him down. As the humans plot Mat and Rand's departure, Loial asks to leave with him.

Gilda interrupts their meeting with a knock and an ill report of Whitecloaks in the inn. The Whitecloak interrupts Gill's greeting, sneering about his search for two Darkfriends from the Two Rivers. The Whitecloaks arrogantly compare Morgays to Darkfriends due to her relationship with Tar Vawlyn, prompting Lamgwin and every patron to stand and challenge the five men. The lead Whitecloak threatens Gill with the Dragon's Fang, but the innkeeper stands his ground and the Whitecloaks back down and leave.





Gilda interrupts Rand and Basel again to inform them of a Lady in the kitchens asking for Rand and Mat by name. They fear it is the Daughter-Heir until Rand remembers that he never mentioned Mat to Elayne. The pieces click together and Rand races to the kitchen even though Master Gill urges caution.

Rand opens the kitchens to see Mworane, Nine'eev, Igwayne, Pairin, and LAN. It is a joyful reunion. After introducing everyone to Master Gill, he notices Pairin's downcast stare. Two of the inn's cats come into the kitchen and one approaches Mworane happily. Mworane notes that the inn has many cats and Gill explains that the entire city has a big problem with rats. Mworane offers to keep rats away from their street and Gill accepts after a moment. Nine'eev asks about Mat, then storms up the stairs when told that he is not well. The reunion turns subdued when Pairin asks about Thom, and grows worse when the Emmond's Field folk visit Mat. Mat responds with great paranoia and has doubts that they are who they claim to be.

Mworane's voice interrupts Mat and she orders the Emmond's Field folk to back away from him, bodily tossing the Wisdom aside when she does not move. Mat and the Eyes Sedai lock eyes. She places her hand on him. In the next instant, Mat tries to stab her with the Ruby-hilted dagger. Inches from her throat, LAN's hand seizes Mat's wrist. Mworane asks Rand how Mat came by the dagger and Rand says that it was taken from Shadar Logoth, but Rand did not know about it until after they got split up. Mworane says that the dagger must have attracted Darkfriends and Shadowspawn to them.

Rand recalls his misadventures with Darkfriends and Shadowspawn during the journey to Kaymlin and tells them of rumors of strange things outside the city. LAN confirms the appearance of Trollocs and Myrddraal waiting for the time to strike. Pairin seems depressed and says that maybe it would be better if they were dead given how much trouble they are causing everyone. Mworane says flatly that dying would not solve the world's problems.

Mworane explains how dangerous the dagger is before kicking the Emmond's Field folk out of the room so she can concentrate on Healing Mat with her angreal.





Chapter 42. Remembrance of Dreams.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand leads a subdued group down to the library after their altercation with Mat. He spies Pairin's resigned look and wonders what is troubling him. He takes a few steps into the library when he realizes that everyone is still at the entrance. He has been around Loial so long that he forgot the initial shock. Rand introduces his friends to the Ogier. Loial's suggestion that they sit and await Mworane's return eases the shock of the Emmond's Field folk.

Pairin asks Loial about the stedding, wondering if they are really places of safety like the stories say. Loial tells them about his journeys, but Rand only pays half a mind, having heard it all before.

The door opens with Mat and Mworane standing at the entry and LAN guarding the rear. Mat stumbles through an apology before some semblance of the old Mat returns when he ends with, "You can't hold a man to blame for what he does when he's crazy, can you?" Forgiveness and playful banter ensues, but ends abruptly when Mat sits down and casually reaches his hand into a coat pocket.

Mworane confirms that he still possesses the Ruby-hilted dagger because she lacks the power to break the binding between him and the knife without help from other Eyes Sedai in Tar Vawlyn. She reports that she has contained the taint that allows Shadowspawn to track them for a time.

Loial introduces himself and appears confused when Mworane tries to dismiss him. Rand informs her that Loial will accompany them.

An exchange of information prompts Mworane to ask about Elaida and her part in Rand's story. Rand recalls how he didn't do anything wrong when he went to see the False Dragon. Pairin remarks that Rand's adventures were much more interesting than theirs, as he and Igwayne only met some Tinkers and ran into Whitecloaks. The mention of Tinkers causes Loial to speak of them, which then causes him to remember the time a man came to his stedding during the Eye’eel War and spoke of a danger to the Eye of the World. Pairin mentions that the Tinkers also told them of an Eye’eel speaking about the Eye of the World three years ago. Then Pairin says that they have to tell Mworane about their dreams about Ba'alzamon. Rand confirms that Ba'alzamon also mentioned the Eye of the World.

Mworane calmly upbraids Rand, reminding him that she warned him about dreams and that they should have told her earlier. She then tells them how the Dark One bends even the most steadfast opponent to his will. She tells them how their Ta'veren nature makes it easier for the Dark One to find them than the average person. They must defend themselves from the Dark One in their dreams by staunchly denying him every time.

Mworane resolves to warn the Green Man of the threat to the Eye of the World, telling the Emmond's Fielders that they must go to the Blight. She smiles at the Ogier, having already weaved him into her plans. She asks Loial about The Ways and Loial confirms that he knows about them. She continues talking about a Waygate in Kaymlin and going to Fal Dara but Loial interrupts and shouts that The Ways will lead to death by the Shadow.





Chapter 43. Decisions and Apparitions.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Loial describes the creation of The Ways by male channelers during the Breaking of the World. He also describes the Ogier trials with the Exile, the Longing and the search for stedding. The Ways connect distant points that have a Waygate but are not really part of the world. Travel between Waygates is much faster than travel in the usual ways.

Male channelers were invited to the stedding so they could hopefully hold off going insane. Many came and stayed for a time. They could not accept being cut off from the True Source for too long and eventually they all left, hoping that the taint was gone but it never was. This either prolonged the Breaking or prevented it from being worse. Eyes Sedai still debate the issue, with the Red Ajah believing the former and the Blue Ajah believing the latter.

As a gift to the Ogier for their kindness, the male Eyes Sedai created The Ways and gave the Ogier a talisman which could be used to create more Waygates. As the Ogier found more lost steddings after the Breaking, they created Waygates right outside them so that the Ogier could travel between them safely.

About a thousand years ago during the War of the Hundred Years the Ways became corrupted and those that entered either did not return or came out senseless. It is assumed that the corruption comes from the fact that they were created by the male half of the Power, which is tainted by the Dark One. Having explained all that, Loial does not see enough reason to use The Ways. Mworane gives more information about the Eye of the World, saying that it is a place of great power and could be harnessed by the Dark One to break free of his prison. And because the forces of the Shadow know about it, the danger is imminent. But because they are three tahveeren, bending the Pattern around them, perhaps the three of them combined could be harnessed to save the world from this danger.

Mworane cannot force any of them to go, but Rand agrees, trying to sound strong. Igwayne refuses to stay behind in a safe place while the others go into danger, so she will go as well. Loial cannot resist the call of adventure and the chance to meet the Green Man, so he reluctantly agrees to go. Eventually it is agreed that they will all go to Fal Dara via The Ways, regardless of the dangers. They spend much of the night planning the trip and compiling a list of needed supplies. Rand tries to get Igwayne to stay behind, but she recalls what Min said about her and Nine'eev being part of their trouble. Igwayne asks who Elayne is but does not believe Rand that she is the Daughter-Heir of Andor. After a bath everyone heads to their rooms to get some sleep.

Rand is in the dream room with Ba'alzamon again. This time there are three figures on the table which clearly depict Rand, Mat and Pairin. Ba'alzamon tries again to get Rand to submit to him, but Rand takes Mworane's earlier advice and denies him every time. When Rand wakes up, he sees Mat muttering in his sleep about denying the Dark One. Rand wakes him and finds out that he was having a similar dream. Ba'alzamon tricked Mat into picking up the figure with the dagger, which lets Ba'alzamon know exactly who he is. Still, though, Rand does not think that the Dark One knows everything.





Chapter 44. The Dark Along the Ways.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand, Mat, Pairin, Igwayne, Nine'eev, Mworane, LAN and Loial leave The Queen's Blessing in the pre-dawn darkness and head to the stable led by Basel Gill. Because of the need for secrecy, they do not use any torches or lanterns. Loial stumbles multiple times and grumbles that he is not a cat and cannot see in the dark. Inside the stable are horses for everyone including Loial, even though he would rather walk. The back wall of the stable is a hidden door to an alley. Before they leave, Mworane tells Master Gill that if he gets any trouble due to their presence, he should write to Sheriam Sedai of the Blue Ajah for assistance. The party exits the stable and Loial leads them to the Waygate beneath a house in Kaymlin. Loial has an innate sense of direction pointing to the Waygate.

Mworane channels to unlock a basement door. Lanterns are lit and the horses led down a ramp into the basement. LAN closes the door behind them. What appears to be a wall decorated with flowers and vines is really the Waygate. Mat is confused as to why there would be a Waygate placed in a basement, but Loial explains that this spot used to be an Ogier grove. Ogier grew groves with Great Trees in various places so that they would be reminded of the peace of the stedding. Sadly, many of the groves have since been cut down by humans and often replaced with urban infrastructure. Mworane does not wish to speak of the past and instead lifts a special trefoil leaf off the wall and places it lower down, which opens the gate to The Ways.

LAN leads the way through the Waygate and is followed quickly by Loial and Rand. Time passes faster in the Ways and as Rand looks back out through the Waygate, the remainder of the party in the regular world seems to be moving very slowly. Mworane is last to come through and closes the Waygate behind them. The Ways is a very different environment where the darkness presses down on them and the lanterns can barely hold back the darkness. Loial leads them through The Ways by reading special Guiding stones on each island. Sometimes they travel over a bridge to the next island and sometimes a curving ramp. The bridges are not held up by anything and are just suspended in the darkness. There is much evidence of decay. Time is precious in the Ways and Mworane insists that they eat while still moving on horseback. Just as Rand is starting to think that traveling the Ways is almost monotonous, they discover that the bridge they are using is broken and does not connect to the next island.







Chapter 45. What Follows in Shadow.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.




Rand and the group are in the Ways traveling to a Waygate near Fal Dara. Up ahead, in the direction they are going, they have encountered a break in the path, barring their progress. Inside the Ways it is dark and foreboding and what light they have brought with them does not illumine much. Even the horses are skittish. They are on a path that may as well be a bridge as nothing seems to be holding it up. It is pitch black above and pitch black below. Whether the Ways have a bottom or a ceiling cannot be determined.

Rand moves toward the edge to take a look and suddenly the lantern and pole from which it hangs feels heavy enough to pull him over. Feeling dizzy, he quickly backs away.

Nine'eev remonstrates with Mworane for bringing them this way, demanding to know if they have to go all the way back to Kaymlin. The Eyes Sedai replies that there are many routes they can take to get to Fal Dara, their destination, and Loial should know them. She then calls to the Ogier twice, the last time forcefully.

As usual Loial is a bit dreamy in his response but promises he can find another way; he also becomes pessimistic about their chances because he sees that the Ways are in such a state of decay.

Pairin states that there must be a way, his eyes glowing golden. It reminds Rand of a wolf at bay. Mworane observes that the break up ahead is an old break and gently dismisses Loial's fears. Loial brightens at her words and boasts of his abilities to find paths in the Ways, remarking that they are three bridges away from Stedding Shangtai. Mworane reminds him that their destination must be Fal Dara and the Eye.

Loial studies the script on the waypost for a good while and finally makes a decision. He leads the troupe onward and regretfully passes the bridge that would take him home.

In an act of commiseration, Rand offers to show Emmond's Field to the Ogier and Loial can show Rand the stedding, once this is all over. Loial questions whether it will ever be all over. Not understanding the Ogier, Rand reminds him that he said it would take two days to get to Fal Dara, and Loial tells him he means everything and then asks him why he thinks it will ever be over?

The bridges go every which way and every once in a while they pass a white line that runs off into the dark. It leads to a Waygate, which leads outside. The Emmond's Fielders look wistfully at that Guiding, but move on.

They travel for a long time until Mworane orders camp be made on an island. Rand is yawning by then. They hobble the horses, set the lamps in tripods made for them, set up an oil stove where Nine'eev and Igwayne make tea. Loial reports that once the islands were full of life, grass and fruit trees full of fruit regardless of the time of year outside.

Nine'eev asks if Mworane is going to set wards. Mworane speaks of the taint in the Power that made the Ways and says that were she to use the Power it would very likely be corrupted; she will not use the Power unless she must.

LAN and Mworane eat heartily, but Rand just picks at his food. Pairin and Mat also are glum. Mworane notes their dark moods and announces that she believes Thom Merrilin is not dead in an effort to cheer them. When Rand mentions the Fade, she replies quickly that when she passed though Whitebridge, they mentioned a gleeman but they did not report his death, and the death of a gleeman would be remembered. She also says that Thom is part of the Pattern that weaves itself around the three boys—too important a part to be cut off.

From those few words Rand deduces that Min Viewed something about Thom and asks, to which Mworane replies that she saw a great deal about all of them. She also says that the fates of the three boys are bound together, Thom's too.

Mat grins and says he doesn't know how she saw anything; she was too busy looking at Rand. Igwayne takes note of his comment and remonstrates with Mworane for not telling her. She might be talking to Mworane but the words are meant for Rand. He says that he talked to her once and Igwayne takes note of that as well.

Pairin breaks in and says that Min was just a worker in an inn, not like Aram, which causes Igwayne to choke on her tea. Rand asks who Aram is and Igwayne blushes. Pairin grins mischievously like the old days. Igwayne finally says that he is one of the Traveling People.

They continue to banter but tiring of it, Igwayne rolls up in her blanket and says she is going to sleep. The three boys continue to playfully sting each other until Rand chooses bed as well. which is like a signal for all the Emmond's Fielders to seek their blankets. Mworane and LAN, however, do not look like they intend to sleep.

Even in their blankets the boys talk about the girls in Rand's life.

Finally Rand is allowed to attempt sleep, but in the Ways made by men who Broke the World, it is very hard. He finds both Pairin and Mat staring at him and it is disconcerting.

Mworane makes a circuit of them all, speaking softly to each in turn. To Rand she speaks of his destiny and how it protects him, and how he is safe while she is with him and that his dreams are safe for now. Rand is not sure of her remarks, but after she leaves, he drifts into a dreamless sleep.

LAN awakens them. Mworane allows one cup of tea and they are off, eating in the saddle. Their fare is the same as last night: bread and meat and cheese.

After they finish their breakfast-on-the-go, LAN reports that someone or something is following them. Mat tries to shoot it blindly while Loial moans about regrets. LAN stops Mat from shooting again, though Mat complains that whoever it is, it must be evil because its in the Ways. LAN reminds the boy that they are in the Ways. Other discussion ensues.

Mworane finally asks LAN what he is feeling. Does the follower serve the Dark One?

LAN says that because of the taint he cannot tell. But he does say that the follower is not trying to catch up. LAN suggests that he be allowed to go looking for this follower, but Loial vetoes that idea. Mworane second's the Ogier's words with, "we have no time."

Loial points out that they are close to a way that will take them to Tar Vawlyn but stops when it becomes obvious that someone has tampered with the path. Chiseled marks wound the stone. LAN is galvanized. Mworane says, "this explains much," and continues on by admitting fear and then saying that the marks were made by Trollocs or Fades; the markings are Trolloc runes. The Trollocs have figured out how to use the Ways, in fact that is how they must have gotten to the Two Rivers—through the Waygate at Manetheren. She makes other mental connections with regard to the appearance of Trollocs around Kaymlin noting that there is a Waygate in the Blight. She also concludes that they (the Trollocs) don't know all the ways yet else an army would have poured through the gate they used at Kaymlin.

LAN, who has moved a small distance away shouts back, "They don't use the Ways easily." Mworane leads the group to him where his lantern reveals horror. Rand sees Trollocs frozen in the rock and are locked forever in fear, and where the rock has bubbled, more fearful Trollocs are revealed deeper in the rock. The bridge ends a few feet beyond the frozen Trollocs, the signpost laying in a thousand shards. All are heavily affected by the sight.

After studying the shards, Loial announces that the bridge before them was the first to Tar Vawlyn. Mworane announces that it is well they are not going to Tar Vawlyn yet. Nine'eev erupts angrily with a tirade about her calmness, speculating that the fate of the Trollocs could happen to them. Mworane replies that it is more likely that the men who built the Ways added traps to protect the Ways and then says they cannot remain and asks Loial if he knows the next bridge. Loial replies that they did not ruin that part of the Guiding with an eagerness that is new, probably because of his desire to move on.

Mworane makes them travel even more slowly despite the need for haste, testing every island before letting anyone step onto it.

Straining to see in the dark, Rand reasons that if Trollocs can use the Ways then their pursuer could be one or more creatures of the Dark One.

They travel, bridge after bridge, eating a meal in the saddle. Then Rand thinks, and finally is sure he hears a wind, absently dreaming it will be good to feel the wind. But then he remembers something Loial said about the Ways and asks him, didn't he say there was no wind in the Ways?

Loial stops and listen and says, "Machin Shin. The Black Wind."

Mworane demands to know how many more bridges are left to their route and Loial replies doubtfully, two. She tells the Ogier to find them quickly.

Scanning the Guiding, Loial mutters about the effects of the Black Wind and then shouts, "This way!" as he gallops toward the chosen bridge.

At the next bridge Loial quickly scans the Guiding and hardly before his horse has stopped he is moving on. The wind is growing louder. At the last bridge they do not bother with the Guiding, but immediately follow the white line.

They reach the gate and Mworane cries out, "The Avendesora leaf, the key is not here!" The members of the party react differently to the news but no one is indifferent. Rand thinks he can hear voices in the pursuing Wind, muttering things so vile that bile raises up into his throat.

Mworane raises her staff and sickly yellow fire flares out generating a filthy smoke, and she uses it to start cutting an opening in the Waygate. The gate starts to melt, if slowly. Mat announces that he can feel the Black Wind.

The flame winks out and Mworane announces that the job is half-done. Two large curved blocks of stone remain in the gate and they look heavy. Once they are gone, everyone should be able to get out, even Loial, though he might have to lay on his back.

Mworane steps back and LAN uses Mandarb as a battering ram to knock the wedges out of the gate; LAN and Mandarb pass through the opening. The light that pours in is the natural light of a mid-morning day.

Rand slaps Behla on the rump and both the horse and Igwayne pass out of the Ways. Mworane commands all of them to get out as she points her staff back toward the Guiding and discharges a long blast. The Wind howls in anger and pain.

Rand exits and nearly gets thrown off his horse because of the passage through the unnatural Waygate. Outside is a cold winter's day, but it is a natural, almost welcome cold. Rand joins the others as they wait for Mworane, LAN most tense of all.

Slowly Mworane backs out of the gateway with its mirror-like surface, her staff pointed toward the Ways, leading Aldieb as she does.

The Waygate darkens to a black as deep as the Ways. Rand can still hear the wind, howling its mad voices at them. The Wind slowly drifts away and the Waygate surface returns to its murky shimmer.

Everyone is intensely relieved, even LAN shows more than his usual stoic demeanor. Mworane explains that the Black Wind could not pass, but then shows her disgust of the taint that corrupts the Ways.

Nine'eev asks what it was that they just escaped, and when Loial responds with name only, she demands to know more.

Mworane spins out several possibilities, but it is obvious that she doesn't really know. Having heard enough, Igwayne shouts for her to stop, but Mworane says one last thing: "There is worse to be faced yet."

She wearily climbs up on Aldieb and points toward the north which contains Fal Dara, their next destination. She mentions that Agelmar, Lord of Fal Dara will need to send men to wall up the hole in the Waygate lest someone wander in accidentally.





Chapter 46. Fal Dara.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand, Mat, Pairin, Mworane, LAN, Igwayne, Nine'eev, and Loial leave the Waygate and travel to Fal Dara, passing vacant farms and land left desolate by the severe winter. Inside the city are many refugees with their possessions and livestock. They arrive at the keep and are greeted by Ingtar and led to Lord Agelmar Jagad.

Mworane requests a night's rest before they depart for The Blight and the Eye of the World. Agelmar tries to convince her and LAN to assist at Tarwin's Gap where they will be outnumbered by Trollocs ten to one. The Borderlands have suffered Trolloc raids through the winter which is most unusual and there are more Trollocs amassing at the Gap than ever in living memory. The other Borderland nations are unwilling to send help because of the incessant Trolloc raids. But if LAN were to raise the Golden Crane banner, some men would surely come to answer the call.

Mworane insists their journey to the Eye is more important. Agelmar then tries to convince her to take some of his soldiers to the Eye, but Mworane declines. The Eye of the World can only be found if the Green Man allows it, and the party cannot have any members that are seeking the Eye for personal concerns such as pride or glory. Mworane says that she has found the Eye before and can again, which finally convinces Agelmar to stop his arguments.

Later Padan Fain is captured trying to enter the city and is brought to the room. He is recognized immediately and Rand realizes that he was the beggar who was looking for Rand in Kaymlin. Fain appears to change rapidly between a frightened common man and a haughty educated man. The haughty personality appeals to Agelmar, telling Agelmar that he can tell Agelmar how to defeat the Dark One without getting entangled by Eyes Sedai plots. Mworane cuts him off and goes with LAN to take him away to find out more about him and his orders.





Chapter 47. More Tales of the Wheel.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand, Mat, Pairin, Nine'eev and Igwayne are waiting with Agelmar for Mworane to return from her interrogation of Padan Fain. Agelmar provides some of the history of LAN and the Kingdom of Malkier that should have been his. He tells the story of the Fall of Malkier. Breyan Mandragoran, LAN's aunt, was envious of the fact that LAN's father al'Akir was raised as King rather than her husband Lain. She drove her husband to lead an expedition into the Blight with much needed men, and when all fell she blamed al'Akir for her husband's death. Plotting with the Darkfriend Cowin Gemallan, they issued orders to withdraw more men from the Borderforts in an attempt to seize the throne for Breyan's son, Isam. Trollocs poured from the Blight and overwhelmed the weakened garrisons, and although Cowin was killed in single combat by al'Akir, it was not enough and Malkier was overrun. Twenty trusted retainers were chosen to take the infant LAN out of the palace as the nation crumbled and five made it to Fal Moran where LAN was raised. The Trollocs were ultimately repelled by the other Borderland nations, but by then the Blight had swallowed Malkier. LAN swore an oath to defend against the Shadow for as long as he lives, and to avenge what cannot be defended. As Malkier is lost and can no longer be defended, LAN has lived his entire life seeking vengeance on the Shadow.

Mworane and LAN return and recount what they learned from Fain. He has been a Darkfriend for forty years and has been hunting the boys for three years. Three years ago he was chosen to be the Dark One's hound and brought to Shay'ole Ghoul by a Myrddraal. There he was tortured and broken, changed so that he could hunt for whom the Dark One sought. He was chosen because his route as a peddler brought him to the Two Rivers and its surrounding areas. Eventually he realized the Dark One's target was one of three boys in Emmond's Field, and then he brought the Trollocs to the Two Rivers using the Waygate at Manetheren. After his target escaped, he was tortured again by the Myrddraal and Trollocs he was forced to travel with. Fain went with them to Shadar Logoth where he finally escaped as Mashadar consumed the Shadowspawn, but even then he felt compelled to continue to hunt for Rand and the others alone. Barely able to stop to eat and rest, he followed the party incessantly through the Ways until he was captured at Fal Dara.

After learning all this, Agelmar tries to get Mworane to delay their departure for the Eye of the World so that Padan Fain can be interrogated further regarding the Eye. But Mworane insists that no delay can be countenanced. Agelmar tries again to send a few men to assist Mworane, but she says that it must be the others she has brought with her and no others; this causes Agelmar to suspect that Rand, Mat and Pairin may be male channelers. Mworane says that all three of them are tahveeren, which Agelmar doubts; she then invokes the old blood of Manetheren, which finally satisfies Agelmar. Rand notices that Mworane said that almost all of them have the blood of Manetheren.





Chapter 48. The Blight.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.





Ingtar leads an escort of Shienaran lances under the Gray Owl banner for Mworane and the group headed to the Eye of the World. He halts the lances at the Blightborder that was once Malkier and appears unhappy at his previous orders to go no further, saddened by the prospect of missing the Battle at Tarwin's Gap, angry that the Emmond's Field folk get to travel the Blight with LAN. Rand thinks back to the soldiers heading toward the Blight, the non-combatants reluctantly heading south in case the worst happens as Ingtar leaves them.

The group travels north at the Warder's pace. They notice that the weather is warmer, and wrong at the same time. The party finds the heat stifling, and hard to breathe in; all except Pairin and LAN. Rand reaches out to touch a sickly looking tree and earns a rebuke from the Warder. They travel further into the Blight, the corruption growing worse with each step. Mat retches multiple times. Loial is disgusted at the corrupted trees. LAN announces that they will not reach the mountains by nightfall, prompting the Eyes Sedai to suggest a nearby area as a camp site. It would be a good omen to camp there.

They camp not too far from a lake. Nine'eev and Mat ask why they do not camp closer to the lake, but then they see a writhing tentacled creature emerge from the surface before eventually going back below, answering their question. This is one of Malkier's Thousand Lakes. Mworane uses the One Power to bend light around their location and set wards around them. The light bending confuses the boys briefly, as it sometimes causes the women to disappear. Igwayne says she will learn to do this in Tar Vawlyn; Nine'eev tentatively suggests she will go there as well, under the pretense of accompanying Igwayne. Igwayne says Rand will be her Warder when she becomes Eyes Sedai, which Rand goes along with even though he remembers that Min told him that he and Igwayne would not be for each other.

Rand has trouble sleeping and eavesdrops on a personal conversation between Nine'eev and LAN in which they both profess feelings for the other, but LAN refuses to accept her love. LAN believes he is doomed to die fighting the Shadow. Rand closes his eyes after seeing his Wisdom cry.





Chapter 49. The Dark One Stirs.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.







The stifling heat of the Blight and a sullen dawn wakes Rand and the others. He notices Nine'eev’s eyes, red from crying and LAN's face from their discussion last night. Igwayne picks up the Wisdom’s spirits while the party gathers their belongings. Mworane erases their presence from the campsite with the One Power, Nine'eev’s reaction to the Eyes Sedai’s channeling confirms her suspicions that Nine'eev can be taught to channel.

They journey deeper into the Blight, where Mat notices how the trees seem to want to reach out and grab them. Mworane’s assurances that they are afraid of channelers like her does little reassure the party. As the danger grows, LAN charges into the forest alone, while the Eyes Sedai orders the Emond’s Field folk to gather closer to her for protection. LAN returns with his sword bloodied and a bizarre creature with too many legs appears after him. Mat shoots an arrow into the creature's eye, killing it. As they continue further north, the trees do actually begin to attack them. They fight back against other creatures and LAN frequently disappears ahead alone before returning to be Healed by Mworane.

The Blight closes tighter around them as the group races to the high passes, not to safety, but toward danger that their current enemies will flee from. A pack of Worms gives them a respite as the creatures they fought fear them. But LAN’s knowledge of Worms gives the party more reason to flee faster than before. As the Wormpack gets closer, LAN announces that they won’t make it. Rand’s desperation increases his need to get to the Eye. That need causes the Eye to appear over the next hill and it is a bountiful garden of trees and wildflowers and butterflies.

A figure out of legend greets them, The Green Man. He greets Loial, the Ogier, warmly. He is delighted to see Pairin the Wolfbrother. And he calls Rand a Child of the Dragon, remarking on Rand's odd clothing and sword. He is very surprised to see Mworane who has been to the Eye before; the Eye was created such that nobody should be able to find it twice. Nonetheless, he turns and leads the group to the Eye of the World.





Chapter 50. Meetings at the Eye

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand al'Thor follows the Green Man and the other Emmond's Field folk as they stare at the beautiful forest around them. The Green Man attends his forest as they walk and plaits flowers into the hair of Igwayne, Nine'eev, and Mworane. He leads them to the heart of his forest, where an arched opening embossed with the ancient symbol of Eyes Sedai awaits. Inside resides the Eye of the World. He leads them to it, but refuses to enter, claiming that his unmaking is tied to the Eye.

They journey down to a pool of water which Mworane explains is a well of untainted siedeen with the power to mend the Dark One's prison, or break it open completely. Here Mworane explains their purpose, telling Rand that he, Pairin, and Mat are here because they are tahveeren, because here the Dark One will strike, and that he must be confronted and stopped, or the Shadow will cover the world. She then guides them back outside.

Two unknown intruders greet them when they exit the eye, one looks older than Cenn Booie, the other concealed in a leather outfit. After LAN and Mworane challenge them, the old man introduces himself as Aginor and says the other is Balthamel, two of the Forsaken trapped near the fringes of the Seal to the Dark One's prison. Mat says this is impossible as the Forsaken are bound in Shay'ole Ghoul, but Aginor corrects him and says they are bound no longer. The two of them and Ishamael are free, and soon the others will be as well. Aginor monologues about a new War of Power with no Lews Therin Telamon to save the world when the Great Lord of the Dark breaks free.

LAN hesitates for a moment, indecisive of who to protect between Nine'eev and Mworane. The moment becomes meaningless as Aginor dispatches him with a flick of his wrist. Enraged, Nine'eev abandons reason and charges the Forsaken with a dagger. Balthamel seizes her by the neck and uses the One Power to shock her. Igwayne, Pairin, and Mat all ignore Rand's warning and try to help the Wisdom. Rand knocks Igwayne to the ground while Aginor attacks Mat and Pairin with little concern and begins another monologue about teaching the Emmond's Field folk obedience.

The Green Man berates the intruders for harming the living. Balthamel tosses the Wisdom like a rag, chokes the Green Man, and uses fire to slowly destroy him. Balthamel appears to have the upper hand until spasms wrack him. The Green Man uses the last of his power to plant seeds within the Forsaken, which burst forth into "all the things that grew in the dark places, all the dark things with spores, all the things that loved the dank," until only a mound of ash remained. Then, the Green Man dies, leaving a massive oak tree in his place. This shocks everyone, even Aginor.

Mworane uses the time to strike at Aginor with a ring of fire. However, his unfazed demeanor prompts her to tell the Emmond's Field folk to run. Rand pushes Igwayne in one direction and attracts Aginor's attention away from Igwayne. He flees in another direction, hearing Mworane screaming behind him.




Chapter 51. Against the Shadow.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand al'Thor is on the run, fleeing from the pursuing Aginor. Mworane Dawmodred has finally stopped screaming. Rand comes to the end of the hilltop, which drops away sharply. He turns to find Aginor approaching. Aginor talks about taking Rand back to Shay'ole Ghoul, but he believes he is above this order and could kill Rand himself if he wants. Rand is beginning to panic when he sees a glowing rope running from Aginor. As Aginor walks towards Rand he becomes more fully fleshed. The glowing bar calls Rand and a tiny strand drifts from Aginor and into Rand. They both begin to stuggle over control over the white glow. Rand notices that Aginor's face is no longer withered, but the face of a strong man in his prime. As they both struggle, flames begin to shoot from Aginor's mouth and he is consumed by fire.

Rand wishes to be away from the hilltop and finds himself in a broad mountain pass. There is battle all around Rand, men from the Borderlands fighting Trollocs. At one end of the pass are the Borderlanders, their forces re-grouping, getting ready for another charge which they probably won't survive. Down at the other end is the Dark One's forces. The army is filled with Trollocs, with Draghkar flying overhead, and Myrddraal are also present. Both sides have now noticed Rand. Heat fills Rand and lightning begins to strike the Draghkar, clearing the sky of their bodies. The Trolloc army begins to charge Rand. Rand drops to his knees and begins to pound the ground, causing huge seismic waves which tears through the Trolloc army. The Trolloc army has been decimated but is still twice the size of the Borderlands force.

Rand hears a voice and climbs towards it. Rand finds himself in Ba'alzamon's chamber, with Ba'alzamon himself there, in front of the fireplace. Ba'alzamon knew Aginor's greed would overcome him, but isn't worried now that Rand has finally revealed himself. Rand notices behind Ba'alzamon lies a huge thick black cord, which is starting to devour Rand's smaller white cord. Ba'alzamon wishes Rand to kneel at his feet. He tells Rand about Jain Farstrider, hinting about him still being at large and under his control. He also mentions the Black Ajah also hunting Rand. Ba'alzamon tries to get Rand to kneel by showing him illusions of Kari al'Thor, Igwayne al'Veer and Nine'eev al'Meera being tortured by Myrddraal. Rand still denies Ba'alzamon. Rand produces a blade of pure white light and kills the Myrddraal. Rand then turns and slashes Ba'alzamon's black cord. The black cord rebounds back into Ba'alzamon and sends him flying into the fireplace. Rand feels the white cord attached to him thinning and sends the last amount of power he has left into Ba'alzamon. Ba'alzamon and the whole chamber catch on fire and begin to burn and blacken. The fire becomes white hot until something strikes Rand, knocking him unconscious.



Unanswered Questions[]


What was that thick black cord behind Ba'alzamon?[]


It may be the Ba'alzamon's link to True Power, however, this link should not be visible to Rand having no access to True Power in this stage. This link is refered being of the same kind as much thinner Asmodean's "link to the Dark One" that was severed by Rand, but the consequences are not same in both cases (Asmodean losses this link irreversibly, while Ba'alzamon later recovers). Also, the link should not work as a weapon.




Chapter 52. There Is Neither Beginning Nor End.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand awakens to light, then pain, then memory of his battle against the Dark One. A burning smell causes him to survey his surroundings, where the remains of Aginor reside from their battle over the Eye of the World. His memory slowly returns; he remembers his father Tam and his own name. Thoughts of Igwayne bring him to his feet. He tumbles down a hill like a drunkard after her and finds a trio of women resting underneath an oak. He calls out to Igwayne and realizes which of the women she is. He touches her cheek and imagines a slight pulling away. He recalls the other two women, Mworane and Nine'eev, who exclaim that they are all right. Rand begins explaining how he defeated the Dark One and pauses as he recalls how he won the fight - by Channeling the One Power, tainted siedeen. He reaches for Igwayne and she shies away before abruptly apologizing with a hug. Mworane demands an explanation and confesses her earlier suspicions at Watch Hill.[1]

After telling Mworane of all that happened, Rand says that he won't go mad if he never touches siedeen again. Mworane says it might be possible with supreme strength of will. He asks Mworane to teach him, but she cannot, as the two halves of the One Power are too different. Rand asks where the men are and Mworane says that LAN took them inside the Eye to see what they could find. Mworane gave them something to do so that they would not look for Rand. Nine'eev and Igwayne know about Rand's channeling because they will be Eyes Sedai; LAN because he is Mworane's Warder, but she did not tell the others for now. Rand suddenly gets angry and asks why Mworane is behaving as such; why isn't she wanting to take him to Tar Vawlyn to be gentled? He recalls Ba'alzamon speaking of the False Dragons and saying they were used by the Eyes Sedai; he exclaims that he won't be used like them. Mworane berates him for being manipulated by Ba'alzamon. Rand realizes the truth of her words, but still retorts that he won't be used by anyone.

The rest of the group exits the inside of the Eye with a giant chest, fragments of pottery, and a folded white cloth. The chest contains the Horn of Valere, the fragments turn out to be shattered pieces of one of the Seals to the Dark One's prison, and the cloth is unfurled to reveal the Dragon Banner. Loial jokes that traveling with tahveeren is far more interesting than even he expected. Upon questioning, Rand lies and says that he only ran away and fell down a hill and lost consciousness for a while.

The party spends the night at the Green Man's home one more time as the Blight rushes in to destroy his creation. Mworane says that it is over for now and they can continue their lives as they will. 


Chapter 53. The Wheel Turns.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


The next morning, the Green Man's garden is still dying. The flowers are gone and the trees have shed almost all of their leaves, but a thin circle of grass and flowers have centered on the thick trunk above the Green Man's grave. Mworane is still too weak to ride, so they hang a litter for her between Behla and Aldieb. They are ready to move on, but Loial is aggrieved that the Green Man's grave will eventually fall to the Blight. He walks over to the tree and uses his treesinging skill on it. When he is done, the leaves on the oak are healthy again. Loial says that the Blight will not be able to consume this remnant of the Green Man.

They ride out into the Blight, but nothing moves or attacks them. LAN chooses a campsite just before sunset, and the girls help Mworane set the wards. As they continue further south the next day, they notice that the twisted trees have been replaced by straight, and slowly, the forest around them has become red with new growth. Spring has truly come and all evidence of the extended winter is gone.

When they reach the border, men come out of the watchtowers to greet them, telling them about a great victory for the Light in Tarwin's Gap. They reach Fal Dara in the afternoon, where the soldiers are celebrating the victory and the spring. Ingtar is not happy because he came an hour too late to see what happened at the battle. He brings them to Lord Agelmar, who tells them that the Light took on flesh and fought for them, and that the Creator walked in the Gap, but he only saw a man, and what he did cannot be. After making sure Padan Fain is secure, Mworane shows him the Horn of Valere asks for an escort to take it to Illian where it belongs.

Seven days later, Rand finishes his sword practice with LAN in Agelmar's private garden and meets Igwayne. He tells her that he will go away. Igwayne asks him to come to Tar Vawlyn with her and Nine'eev, but Rand refuses. He says he'll never channel again. When she asks him if he'll be going home, he tells her that he'll never go home.



Point of view: Mworane Dawmodred.


Mworane is in Agelmar's private garden. She uses her kesiera to focus her eavesdropping on Rand and Igwayne. Using the kesiera to eavesdrop was the first use of the One Power she had learned. Smiling, she says, "The Prophecies will be fulfilled. The Dragon is Reborn."





