Chapter 0. The Great Hunt/Prologue.






Point of view: The man who calls himself Bors.


The man who calls himself Bors is at a gathering of summoned Darkfriends, assembled as though it were a social event. There are a hundred Darkfriends in attendence. They are all masked, but Bors notices a good number of them have not bothered to change their clothing or hide other clues. He is able to identify an Illianer noblewoman wearing a low cut scarlet dress and golden slippers; a Domani woman wearing a golden bracelet identifying her House; a Shienaran soldier; a Tinker wearing green pants and a yellow coat; a High Lord of Tear; an Andoran Queen's Guard; a Sea Folk man; two Eyes Sedai; and people from Kandor, Kai'rienne, Saldaea, and Ghealdan. Bors is completely disguised so no one can identify him, even taking care to hide his height and build with a slouch.

The door opens and two Trollocs and a Myrddraal enter. The Myrddraal announces to the Darkfriends that their master comes. A red-masked man identifying himself as Ba'alzamon enters; he tells them that the room where they are gathered is near Shay'ole Ghoul. Bors wonders if he really is the Dark One or if one of the Forsaken has been set free.

Ba'alzamon forms images of Rand al'Thor, Mat Cauthon, and Pairin Eyebarra and tells the Darkfriends to know them and await further instructions. He also says that the Dragon has been reborn, but has not yet declared himself so. The Shienaran asks if he is to be killed, but Ba'alzamon says it would be better if the Dragon were turned to serve him. He gives orders to each of the Darkfriends individually. He commands Bors to return to Tarabon and keep up his good work there. He is to keep a look out for the three tahveeren, but also to keep quiet about those who have landed on Toman Head. He then sees images of the Shay'ole Ghoul sky, a young woman dressed in white, a raven, a Shawn'chin soldier, the Horn of Valere, and a wolf. These are subliminal commands that have been implanted into Bors.

Escorted by a Zomara, Bors nervously returns to his room and hastily dons his normal clothes; wondering if the promise of immortality was worth a meeting such as this. His garments are that of a Whitecloak Questioner.





Chapter 1. The Flame of Tar Vawlyn.






Point of view: Omni.


A wind blows from the Mountains of Dhoom through the Great Blight to the fortress-city of Fal Dara in Shynarr. The trees have new growth as spring was late in coming.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand al'Thor and LAN Mandragoran are practicing sword fighting in a tower in the middle of Fal Dara. The wind blows so strongly at Rand that he is unable to back away from a thrust by LAN. LAN's practice sword shatters and injures Rand. This is the first known instance of a bubble of evil.

LAN questions Rand on why he hasn't left Fal Dara when he had said he was going to leave a month ago. Rand makes excuses, saying that he needs to learn sword fighting to protect himself. The sword makes him think about his father Tam; LAN remarks that when a man raises a boy in the Borderlands, he is regarded as the father regardless of birth. Rand learns from LAN that his Heron-mark sword is power wrought, just like LAN's. It will never dull or rust.

LAN says that Rand has learned well enough that others will believe he has a right to the sword, and he does not have time to learn enough to be a true Blademaster. So LAN asks again why Rand is not gone. Rand mentions his friends Mat Cauthon and Pairin Eyebarra as well as Igwayne al'Veer, and how he may never see them again once they part. LAN presses further and finally Rand admits the real reason - he is hoping Mworane can help him further, but now she refuses to talk to him and frequently goes elsewhere for her own reasons. LAN says that even he cannot question what Mworane does, but she did in fact return last night.

LAN tells Rand that he is wasting time and should at least resume his practice, but then they hear the sound of trumpets and drums. Rand looks out from the tower and sees banners inscribed with the Flame of Tar Vawlyn as a large group approaches Fal Dara. LAN says it is the Amyrlin Seat and that Rand should have left earlier before this could happen. Rand scrambles down the tower, hoping to get away as soon as possible.





Chapter 2. The Welcome.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand goes to his room so he can pack to leave Fal Dara. He finds Elansu , shatayan of the keep, with some of the servants taking his old clothes and those of Mat and Pairin and replacing it with new, much fancier clothing.  Elansu tells Rand that Moraine sedai asked her to remove all the old clothes, every stitch, even the small clothes. This makes Rand blush as he is still getting accustomed to bold shienarian ways. Rand asks Elansu and other servants to wait outside and promises to give them the clothes he is wearing, including his boots. Rand notices, to his horror, that his new cloak has been embroidered with the symbol of the Dragon from the Dragon Banner. He hopes nobody who saw it knows what it means. After changing, he grabs some spare clothes, taking care to bury the cloak in the middle of the bundle. He plans to remove the embroidery later. He also takes Thom Merrilin's harp, flute, and cloak and leaves the keep for the stables.

He cuts through the courtyard to get to the stables as quickly as possible. At the courtyard the Ahmerlin’s party is just arriving. Rand sees warders with their color shifting cloak standing in the courtyard, a dozen paces in front of the warders stood fourteen Eyes Sedai. There is a curtained palanquin in the center of the courtyard, carrying the Amrylin seat. An elaborate ceremony is in progress where the Amyrlin is greeted by Lord Agelmar Jagad. Despite his hurry, Rand slows down and watches the ceremony.

At the stables Rand is told by Tema that no one may leave, not on horse or on foot. Tema tells Rand that the order came only a few moments ago. All the gates are closed and no one can enter or leave without permission. Rand asks Tema if the order has come from Lord Agelmar. Tema replies positively as who else can give such an order in Fal Dara, but Rand has his doubts. Rand runs off when Tema mentions that the ceremony in the courtyard is finished and the Amyrlin will be sending for Rand soon.





Chapter 3. Friends and Enemies.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is still trying to get out of the city because he fears what the Amyrlin will do to him. He runs into Mahsemma and Ragan guarding a sally gate. Ragan would likely have let him out despite their orders otherwise, but Mahsemma is there and will not deviate from duty. Other gates he checks are also locked and guarded. Even the dog gate is guarded.

He starts wandering around with no particular purpose, just hoping to go to places where people won't be looking for him. He wonders if Mworane sent for the Amyrlin because of him, and that's why she's in the city. Eventually he ends up in a storeroom and runs into Loial. Thinking that the city was built by Ogier, Rand asks him if he knows the city's layout and possible exits. Loial says that the Ogier built Mafal Dadaranell, but that city is gone and Fal Dara which now stands in its place was built by men. Mat and Pairin are also there, and Mat is winning at dice. Mat and Pairin do not know Rand can channel, so they don't understand his desire to leave the keep. Rand, wanting to keep Mat and Pairin out of it, gets into a fight with them so they won't want to come with him. Then he is rude to Loial and even makes Loial mad, so now he can leave the city alone.

Leaving, Rand runs into Igwayne who says that she spoke to Mat and the others. Rand tells Igwayne that he needs to leave before the Eyes Sedai get him, but Igwayne holds onto him when he tries to go. Igwayne says that he can just hide where nobody expects and suggests the dungeons. She goes to see Padan Fain there sometimes anyway so it would be fine for her to take him there now. Rand tells Igwayne that she should have asked Mworane whether it is wise to visit Padan Fain. Igwayne retorts that she doesn't need to ask Mworane for permission and says that Fain is someone she can talk about home with. Since she has been doing it for a while anyway, Rand eventually agrees to go.

The guards used to be pleasant to Igwayne but now Changu is very surly and Nidao is silent. They pass the other prisoners who snarl at them, and Igwayne notes that the prisoners have gotten worse over time too. Fain tells Rand that he will be on the Dark One's side when Fain is done with him. Igwayne says that Fain is not normally like this and realizes it was a bad idea to bring Rand down here. Igwayne then suggests hiding Rand in the women's quarters. Rand thinks this is crazy because the Eyes Sedai must be there, but Igwayne points out that it would be the last place anyone would look. Rand reluctantly agrees.





Chapter 4. Summoned.






Point of view: Mworane Dawmodred.


Mworane adjusts her dress and dons her formal shawl as she will soon meet the Amyrlin. She prepares to face her sisters, some of which she may not be happy to see. Liandrin and Anaiya come to Mworane's rooms to bring her to the Amyrlin. Mworane is pleased to see Anaiya who is her friend. Liandrin protests that Mworane should not have her room warded against sisters but Mworane says the room is warded against all. Along the way they tell her of the three false Dragons in Saldea, Murandy and Tear.

The three pass down the halls as servants and nobles curtsy to them alike. Mworane and Anaiya acknowledge the curtsies but Liandrin ignores them. Mworane sees Igwayne scurry down the hall, a crouched shape (Rand) behind her. Mworane realizes that Igwayne is up to something. Anaiya says that Elayne and Gawyn have come to the Tower. Elayne was born with the spark and may be the first queen to reach full Eyes Sedai in ages. The Great Hunt of the Horn has been called in Illian. Anaiya then mentions rumors that the Sea Folk and the Eye’eel are stirring. Liandrin adds mention of Almoth Plain, which surprises even herself, but Anaiya says that there were only faint rumors of fighting there as they were leaving Tar Vawlyn.

They enter the Ahmerlin’s chambers. Verin Mathwin and Serafelle (brown), Carlinya (white), Alanna Mosvani (green), and a yellow sister who Mworane does not recognize are all in attendance. Lee’ahnna, the Keeper of the Chronicles, comes out to bring Mworane into the inner room to see the Amyrlin.

Mworane enters into a discussion with Sewan Sawnchay, the Amyrlin, with Lee’ahnna observing. The Amyrlin had her vessels sped up with the Power to reach Mworane quickly, even though doing so caused flooding and crop damage along the way. She did this to bring urgent news to Mworane. Elaida has left her post as Queen Morgays's advisor so that she could bring Elayne to the tower. Elayne will be a channeler of great power and the Red Ajah's discovery of her brings them clout with the Hall of the Tower, which is very concerned with the Eyes Sedai's dwindling numbers. The Red Ajah hope that Elayne will choose to join them. Mworane mentions that Igwayne who is with her will be just as strong, as she has met the two of them and can compare. Nine'eev is also present in the city and she will be stronger still, and neither of the two will choose the Red.

Elaida also told the Hall that she had found a dangerous young man who is tahveeren in Kaymlin, but before she could do anything Mworane had spirited him away. Some in the Hall suggested severe punishment on Mworane for this, including Sitters of the Green Ajah who have always aligned themselves with Mworane's Blue, usually in opposition to the Red. Thankfully, the proposal did not pass.

Sewan sends Lee’ahnna out of the room and moves closer to hug Mworane, recalling their time as novices. Mworane is the only one Sewan can truly trust. Sewan wards the room against eavesdropping and they begin to discuss their secret plans which would have dire consequences for the two of them if they were discovered. They are Eyes Sedai and will do what must be done.





Chapter 5. The Shadow in Shynarr.






Point of view: Mworane Dawmodred Setting: Fal Dara.


Mworane tells Sewan that Lee’ahnna will support her in her secret plans, but Sewan dares not trust Lee’ahnna too much. The initial plan was to hide Rand in Tar Vawlyn where they could instruct him in secret. Sewan is frustrated because Mworane only sent her two messages since she left Tar Vawlyn: one saying that she was entering the Two Rivers and one from Kaymlin saying they were heading for Fal Dara, rather than Tar Vawlyn.

They examine the Horn of Valere, which Agelmar gave to Sewan as soon as she arrived. "And prophecy said it would only be found just in time for the Last Battle." Agelmar knew that he had to be rid of it, because he desired to use it for glory while the prophecies say that it must be blown by one only thinking of salvation. Mworane shows Sewan the broken Seal further confirming the last battle is imminent. Sewan recalls that she identified Rand when she saw him in the courtyard; she has the Talent to see tahveeren. Mworane confirms that he is indeed the Dragon Reborn and can channel siedeen.

Mworane details her new plan. She has purposefully left Rand alone lest she trigger the infamous Manetheren stubbornness. She will gently prompt Mat and Pairin to take the Horn to Illian and Rand will want to go with them. She will arrange for Rand present it to the Council of Nine. Everyone knows that the Horn is linked to the Dragon, and in finding it he will be able to proclaim himself the true Dragon and have the Hunters of the Horn and Illian behind him immediately. Mworane will not travel with them, so that Rand does not feel that he is doing the bidding of Eyes Sedai. She has destroyed their clothes and will cleanse everyone before they leave so there will be no traces for the Shadowspawn to follow. They also plan to Heal Mat of the taint from the ruby-hilted dagger immediately in Fal Dara, rather than going to Tar Vawlyn. With Mworane's angreal, she and Sewan will only need two other trusted sisters, of which Lee’ahnna can be one.

Mworane is careful about what she tells to Sewan, but she also cannot leave the impression that she is not telling everything. When Mworane leaves and goes back to the outer chamber, she pretends to have been chastened by the Amyrlin Seat.



Point of view: Jeffrem Bornhauld Setting: Alcruna, Tarabon.


Jeffrem Bornhauld leads two thousand Whitecloaks into Alcruna near the Almoth Plain. He is annoyed because he was called back to Amador from Kaymlin when he thought Morgays was near to being overthrown. Eamon Valda insisted on following Elayne's procession to Tar Vawlyn. Bornhauld's son Dain went with Valda.

In Amador, Pedron Niall told him to take a legion to Alcruna where he would receive further orders. He had asked if this has to do with rumors of Artur Hawkwing's army returning, but Niall did not answer. As he nears Alcruna, he is met by a group of Questioners led by Einor Saren, second in command to Jay'kem Carriden. He tells Bornhauld that there are strangers on Toman Head. He says that the strangers fight with monsters. Bornhauld calls Jaret Byar and tells him to lead the men into Alcruna.



Point of view: Liandrin Setting: Fal Dara.


Liandrin is walking through the womens' quarters as evening approaches and enters Lady Amalisa's apartments. One of her attendants is reading aloud The Dance of the Hawk and the Hummingbird by Teven Aerwin, a book supposedly outlining proper behavior between men and women. When Amalisa sees and welcomes Liandrin, Liandrin sends the attendants away harshly. Liandrin chastises Amalisa for her foolishness and then questions her about Darkfriends and how the Shadow can overcome those who claim to walk in the light. Amalisa is insulted, and Liandrin begins asking her about Mworane and the Darkfriend in the dungeons. She finally cracks Amalisa's defenses when she suggests that Agelmar may be a Darkfriend.

In Amalisa's moment of vulnerability, Liandrin uses her Compulsion on her. She tells her to find the three boys Mworane came to Fal Dara with. She says they must be taken secretly to Tar Vawlyn because of the Black Ajah. Amalisa says that the Black Ajah is not real, but Liandrin insists. Amalisa is terrified and agrees. This visit reveals Liandrin's true identity as Black Ajah.



Point of view: Padan Fain.


Padan Fain is waiting for something in his cell, something he knows is coming very soon. The door to the outer guardroom opens and the light outlines the figure who enters. When Fain sees who it is, he says, "You! Not who I expected. Surprises for everyone, eh?" As the other person enters the cell chamber, Fain whispers, "It isn't over yet. The battle's never over."





Chapter 6. Dark Prophecy.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand awakes from a nightmare in Igwayne's apartment in the women's quarters of Fal Dara keep. Nine'eev is there, knitting but not really paying attention to it. She tells Rand that Igwayne has gone off to visit Padan Fain, with Mat or Pairin if she can find them. Rand exclaims that Fain is dangerous. Rand asks Nine'eev whether a search has started for him yet, and Nine'eev reports curious movements of maids in the halls. The maids should have their hands full preparing for the feast that is being held for the Amyrlin later tonight, but instead they are running around everywhere. Nine'eev even saw Lady Amalisa emerge from a storeroom with dust all over her face! Rand is convinced that a search for him would be carried out by soldiers, so he dismisses this. Nine'eev concedes that it doesn't make sense for Amalisa to be searching for Rand, but she must have been searching for something desperately. Nine'eev saw that even the men were confused about the behavior of the women.

An alarm sounds and after they conclude that it's not about Rand, he becomes worried about Igwayne who was visiting Padan Fain. He goes in search of her and finds the Amyrlin in the hallway. He runs into a Myrddraal on the way to the dungeon and is afraid. Ingtar arrives and tells Rand that he will take care of the Fade. Rand makes it to the dungeons and finds the guards dead and messages on the walls written in blood. One message, on the door says "We will meet again on Toman Head. It is never over, al'Thor." He scrubs off the message just as Liandrin arrives, who tries to use Compulsion on him to find out his name and what he is doing. Rand resists, not telling Liandrin anything. Desperate, he is about to reach for siedeen as Mworane arrives and Liandrin stops her weave. He rushes into the cells and finds that the other prisoners have gone insane. Then he finds Igwayne and Mat on the floor, passed out, in Padan Fain's cell. Mworane calls for the guards to get a litter for Mat and Igwayne. Mworane says that Igwayne only suffered a minor head injury and will be all right. As Mworane is seeing to Mat, she says his dagger is gone, and to take him to the Amyrlin. Liandrin is incensed at her lack of information and being mostly ignored, but can do nothing except leave.

Ingtar rushes in and tells Rand that the Horn of Valere is gone. Trollocs made it into the keep through the Dog Gate. The guardsmen at the gate had their throats cut by someone they knew, a Darkfriend. Rand learns from Ingtar that Lord Agelmar had not previously issued that order for all the gates to be closed, which confuses him greatly. As he follows Ingtar out of the dungeon, he sees Verin and another Brown Eyes Sedai transcribe the Trolloc writing on the walls. Outside he meets LAN, who is very amused by the story of Rand running through the women's apartments with a sword. LAN tells Rand that he is free to leave anytime even though Agelmar has ordered the keep locked down, as Mworane insisted that he be exempt. Rand asks LAN whether Mworane issued the earlier order to stop him from leaving, but LAN only looks troubled and says nothing.





Chapter 7. Blood Calls Blood.






Point of view: Mworane Dawmodred.


Lee’ahnna, Verin, Mworane and the Amyrlin have just finished performing Healing on Mat to reduce the Ruby-hilted dagger's influence on him. Lee’ahnna takes the servants carrying Mat out of the room. The remaining three discuss what to do, as the Healing cannot be complete without the dagger present. Mat only has a few months to live unless he can be reunited with the dagger in time. Mworane is thinking about how to modify her earlier plan to prompt Mat to take the Horn of Valere to Illian as a way to get Rand to Illian to declare himself the Dragon. They conclude that to save Mat's life the dagger must be retrieved, and Mat is the best person for the job as he can retrieve and hold the dagger safely but anyone else who touches it will be subject to its effects.

Sewan moves to dismiss Verin so she can discuss matters privately with Mworane, but Verin tells her of the Trolloc script scrawled all over the prison walls. It is a long, rambling poem that has tinges of prophecy in it but may also just be a taunt or a message meant to sow confusion. It talks of Lanfear walking the world again and seeking a new lover and the man who channels sacrificing his friends. This troubles Mworane as it is well known that Lanfear was Lews Therin's lover before he met and married his wife. The subsequent passages are less understandable and make references to Luc Mantear, Isam Mandragoran, Toman Head and possibly the return of the armies of Artur Hawkwing. Finally it unmistakably says that the Return of the Dark One approaches. Verin discusses the passages with Sewan and Mworane and whether it is prophecy or just nonsense. Verin does not have a conclusion; she merely goes through the text slowly and deliberately and discusses what they might mean. Sewan becomes increasingly irritable at the Brown sister's long-windedness until Mworane dismisses it as just a Myrddraal ploy to confuse and frighten them, but then Verin reveals that she has deduced that the male channeler mentioned must be one of the three young men traveling with Mworane.

Mworane panics and embraces saidar as she is prepared to shield or even harm Verin, and she sees Sewan do the same. Verin realizes that Sewan, Mworane's oldest friend, has been helping her the entire time. Sewan blusters and tries to dismiss Verin's implicit accusation, but it is too late as Verin's suspicions are confirmed by their reactions. Verin says that she knows the only reason the Amyrlin and Mworane would do as they have is that the young man is not just any male channeler but is in fact the Dragon Reborn; she also confirms that nobody else shares her knowledge even though Serafelle helped her transcribe the Trolloc script.

Mworane relents and tells Verin to sit down and tell them everything she knows. Verin says it is unlikely anyone else has figured it out, as her first clue came twenty years ago as the Eye’eel were outside the walls of Tar Vawlyn. Verin has forced her way into Mworane and Sewan's conspiracy to help the Dragon Reborn.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin sneaks into the infirmary to visit Mat. He recalls the night before when he was in the gardens and maids were watching him. He heard one of the maids run to fetch Liandrin Sedai. Mat wakes up briefly and remembers Igwayne telling him to come to the dungeon and see Fain with her. After Mat goes back to sleep, Lee’ahnna comes in and Pairin stands up defensively, saying that he hasn't disturbed Mat's rest. Lee’ahnna had previously prevented Pairin from coming in to see Mat. Lee’ahnna blocks Pairin's exit and he feels her use the Power on him. She remarks on Pairin's odd eyes but says he is healthy. Pairin only says that he was born with those eyes. He picks her up and moves her out of his way, then exits the room.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Pairin comes back to the room he shares with Rand, who is tossing around in bed. Pairin is still angry over Rand's earlier words when Rand was trying to distance himself from his friends. Rand apologizes and explains that he's in trouble and mentions Liandrin. Pairin says that Liandrin wants him too, which confuses Rand. Pairin is happy to hear that Rand didn't really mean what he said, but then Rand says they can't leave together so Pairin storms out of the room. Rand feels better about leaving after hearing from Pairin that Mat is all right. LAN comes in to tell Rand that the Amyrlin has summoned him and makes him change his clothes. LAN also quickly trains him in etiquette which confuses Rand, until Rand realizes that LAN is trying to make him seem like a man from Manetheren.





Chapter 8. The Dragon Reborn.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Feeling sick with nervousness, Rand follows LAN down the hall to the Ahmerlin’s chambers. Lee’ahnna, acting as gatekeeper, refuses entry to LAN, telling him that Mworane has a task for him. Mworane is inside the Ahmerlin’s room with Verin. Rand presents himself according to LAN's instructions, prompting the Eyes Sedai to look at him curiously. They conclude that this weird behavior is LAN's doing. Mworane reveals that Rand's father Tam was a blademaster in the Illianer Companions and that he married a woman from Kaymlin. The Amyrlin tests Rand's mettle by threatening to take his sword away, which Rand does not take kindly to. She is pleased at Rand's response. She tells Rand that Mat and Pairin are going with Ingtar to find the stolen Horn of Valere and the dagger that Mat needs to stay alive. He can go with them on their hunt, or he can stay here as Lord Agelmar's guest. But he would be staying behind alone, as Mworane, Igwayne and Nine'eev will be returning with the Amyrlin to Tar Vawlyn. Rand tries to discern what the Eyes Sedai want him to do so he can do something else, but ultimately he must help recover the dagger to save Mat's life. He says he will ride with Ingtar.

Now that Rand has decided on a course of action, the Amyrlin flatly tells Rand that she knows he can channel; after the initial shock wears off, Rand asks her why she is not gentling him, to which she says, "because you are the Dragon Reborn." Rand says that Thom told him all about this, and he will not be a White Tower pawn like the other False Dragons. The Amyrlin insists that he is the real Dragon and not a fake. Mworane tells him the story of how he was born, with his father fighting a battle, and his mother giving birth on the slopes of Dragonmount. Rand's story is intertwined with Mworane's, who was an Accepted twenty years ago when she witnessed Gitara Moroso's Foretelling of his birth. The Amyrlin was there as well, another Accepted. Everything is consistent with the Karaethon Cycle as well as what Rand heard from his father's fever dream. The Amyrlin tells him that she will also speak with Pairin and Mat so that Rand will not be singled out; she warns him to be careful, as other Eyes Sedai and men will not believe or do as they do. Rand still doesn't believe that he is the Dragon and tells the Eyes Sedai that he will not be used.



Point of view: Mworane Dawmodred.


Rand leaves the room after all their stories, and the Amyrlin wonders what they are unleashing on the world. The Amyrlin, Mworane and Verin agree that it is necessary to let him be free to fulfill the prophecies.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev feels a storm coming, but the storm is not weather related and she doesn't quite understand. She could always feel the weather but now she feels uncomfortable with the ability, knowing that it is her ability to channel that gives her this skill.

Nine'eev sees Rand in the hallways and tries to catch up to him and find out what if anything happened at his meeting with the Amyrlin. She fails to find him but encounters LAN instead.

Nyneave meets LAN in the hall and he calls her "Mashiara" (beloved of heart and soul), and gives her his Golden Crane signet ring. He tells her that the ring will let her get help from any lord in the Borderlands; she can also use it to send him a letter and he will come help without delay. He leaves, saying he has work to do before the Ahmerlin’s departure. Mworane enters the hall and tells Nyneave that she didn't hear anything she shouldn't have, and that she should see to her packing for the trip to Tar Vawlyn. Upon being asked about Rand's meeting, Mworane says only that the Amyrlin will be seeing all three tahveeren.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne is in her room packing her things since she will be leaving for Tar Vawlyn shortly. Nyneave comes to see if she's ready, and Igwayne can see that Nyneave is thinking of LAN. Nisura comes and tells Igwayne that a man is trying to see her, and says that it is Lord Rand. This irritates Nyneave, who says he is "too big for his breeches." They go down the hall, where Rand is being blocked by guards, and Igwayne says she will talk to him.  The people in the hall trust Igwayne will handle it and disperse.

She asks him what the Amyrlin wanted with him. He says she wanted to see tahveeren, and they discuss Eyes Sedai and Fain. Rand says they will likely never see each other again, since she is going with Nyneave to Tar Vawlyn and he is going to find the Horn of Valere with Ingtar. Igwayne says she'll find a way to help him.  





Chapter 9. Leavetakings.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand goes to the outer gate to join in preparation for the Hunt, and is surprised to see Loial ride up. Loial still wishes to travel with tahveeren, no matter how dangerous. Mat and Pairin ride up to the group, see Rand's fancy coat, and ride away from him without a word. They haven't forgiven him for his words to them even though Rand tries to apologize. Loial accepts Rand's apology however. LAN comes to give Rand a final lesson before they leave, Sheathing the Sword. There may come a time when Rand must kill his enemy at all costs; in that case, Rand must be willing to allow the opponent to strike a great blow in order to defeat him. Rand hears part of a conversation with Agelmar and the Amyrlin. Agelmar is trying to convince her to stay longer, but she refuses.

The Amyrlin is giving a brief speech to the departing party as Rand feels someone's eyes watching him. He feels uneasy and turns around to look at the balconies above. Suddenly, the Amyrlin is nicked with an arrow, and there are shouts of "find him! Stop him!" The arrow was aimed at Rand but missed when Rand turned around. The Amyrlin says they must not worry about her and go about their business.

As they leave the city the sniffer Hurin joins the party. Hurin is able to track the Shadowspawn by smelling violence and those who did it. Hurin directs them southward. Ingtar mentions that Changu and Nidao, two of Fain's guards, are gone from the keep. He says they must be Darkfriends, even though they saved Agelmar during the Battle of Tarwin's Gap a month earlier.



Point of view: Bayle Domon.


In Illian, festivities continue for the Great Hunt, but Bayle Domon has no interest in it. Domon was born in Illian, but has traveled widely and is not used to his hometown anymore. His mind is preoccupied as he knows he is going to meet men who may be trying to kill him. He goes into Easing the Badger in the seedy part of town, where he takes a table by himself and gets a mug of ale. The innkeeper makes sure Domon sees her when she slides her gaze to three Cairhienin in the corner. These men go over to Domon's table and say they have someone who needs to be transported from Mayene to the east.

Domon says his ship is a riverboat unsuited to sailing in the sea, but they say that they have heard he is not sailing the rivers anymore. This troubles Domon, as he has decided not to sail back upriver but had not yet told anyone. They offer him 200 gold marks upfront with another 800 to be paid later, an enormous sum for such a simple job. This is the fourth such job he has been offered, and this latest sum is four times the previous offer. They give him a sealed document to hand over to the Port Captain of Mayene where he will pick up his passenger. When he pays for his drink with the gold they gave him, the barkeep notices they are Tar Vawlyn marks. Realizing the Whitecloaks are in town, he thinks that someone definitely wants him to leave the city, since passing those around would get noticed and he would be thought to be "in league with the witches."

Yarin Maeldan, Domon's second on the ship, comes in to tell him that sailor Carn is dead. Domon doesn't know what to do now, as his men got killed when he declined the previous jobs, yet now he agreed to the commission and still his man was killed. It looks like they tortured Carn for information before he was killed, and some men tried to sneak around the Spray before that. Domon tells Yarin that they are leaving as soon as they have minimum crew on the ship and anyone who isn't onboard is being left behind.

Domon retires to his quarters on the ship and examines the sealed document. He heats the seal and removes it with a knife, revealing a document purportedly from Galldrian Riatin, king of Kai'rienne. It says that the bearer of the document is a Darkfriend wanted for foul crimes and charges the recipient to arrest and hang him. Domon's possessions are to be held until men are sent to retrieve them, which prompts him to look through his collection of old artifacts. He recalls that he was first pursued by Darkfriends after purchasing four items in Maradon. He realizes that the item that brought him all this trouble is a cuendillar disc in the shape of the ancient symbol of the Eyes Sedai. Not knowing that it is one of the Seven Seals, he does not know why the Darkfriends want it. He tells Yarin to sail toward the Aryth Ocean, far away from the eastern ports that the Darkfriends wanted him to go to.





Chapter 10. The Hunt Begins.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand wonders if Ingtar plans on killing the horses with the pace he has set. It seems that he wants to find the Horn in one day. Rand wants to talk privately with Mat and Pairin to apologize and explain, but Mat always prompts Pairin to avoid him. Ingtar finally decides they cannot continue on horseback their current pace and they alternate between riding and running along with the horses.

When they camp for the night, Rand checks his bags and is annoyed that all his clothes are too fancy. Ingtar tells him to stop complaining and jokes that Rand will be well dressed for their celebration feast after they find the Horn. Rand is perplexed by Uno and Mahsemma's behavior toward him. Ingtar says that Uno is just trying to gauge Rand to see if he is worthy of that heron-marked blade. Mahsemma, on the other hand, only sees an Eye’eel when he sees Rand, and he fought the Eye’eel for many years. Rand insists that he is a shepherd from the Two Rivers, but Loial reminds him that Loial was mistaken on their first meeting too. Ingtar speaks of the unparalleled hardiness and fighting ability of the Eye’eel.

The next morning, they find where the Trollocs camped for the night. There is evidence that the Trollocs killed humans and ate them, perhaps some of the Darkfriends with them. Hurin says they have turned northeast now. They follow the trail until they find a dead man nobody recognizes, and the trail turns south again. They continue this zigzag pattern for several days, where they follow the trail northward for a few hours in the morning before spending the rest of the day going southward. Ingtar considers going just south as a shortcut but quickly dismisses the idea because the pattern may change at any time. They are gaining ground slowly each day. Ingtar speaks frequently of their glory being immortalized in history once they find the Horn, which disturbs everyone. Shienarans seek duty, not glory.

They come to the river Erinin and an empty village. Uno spots a white-dressed woman in the otherwise empty village but they cannot find her. Pairin smells something very wrong and warns Mat and Rand to prepare themselves as they cross the river. On the south bank, they find the bodies of Changu and Nidao skinned alive, hanging from trees. Ingtar orders a proper burial for them, as they may have been coerced and not actually Darkfriends.

A little while later, they come upon another village, and Rand goes into one of the houses. He sees a half-eaten dinner on the table. Rand has a vision several times of a family sitting down to eat, and the door flies open. The mother grabs the children and starts to run, the father drops the carving knife he had been using, and the vision starts again. Rand reaches for the Void and finally breaks from the vision. When they meet in the town square, Mat says he saw the same thing Rand did, the empty chairs around the dinner table, but no vision of a family. The party meets in the town square, and walks to what used to be a village meeting place, where they find a Fade spreadeagled and bound to the front doors of the building. They are wondering what could manage this. Speechless, they can only leave and follow the trail southward. 





Chapter 11. Glimmers of the Pattern.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


After seeing the Fade nailed to the door and the guards hanging from the trees, everyone is a bit shaken. Uno mentions he spotted the white-dressed woman again in the second village, shortly before finding the dead Fade. Rand doesn't think it's possible that it was the same woman. Due to the current morale of the group, Ingtar calls for an early stop and is extra vigilant in posting guards. Rand receives a package from Ingtar that he says is from Mworane. Ingtar also tells Rand that he is second in command of the party and if Ingtar dies, Rand must complete the mission. Rand objects to no avail.

Rand goes into the forest to open the package and discovers that it is the Dragon Banner. Mat sees him with the banner and gets even angrier at Rand. Pairin reacts differently and just ponders. Rand gets angry too and exclaims that Mworane is setting him up to be a False Dragon despite his best efforts to stop it. Pairin asks Rand whether he can channel, and Rand admits he can. Mat panics and starts rambling about all of them getting killed but Pairin tells him to shut up. Rand says that Mworane told him that he is the real Dragon but he doesn't believe it. Rand finally gets to explain his earlier words and his friends understand, although Mat is still afraid of him. Pairin advises him to run away but admits that it may not be possible. Rand keeps trying to figure out what Mworane wants him to do so he can do something else, but all he does is confuse himself in the increasing layers of psychology.

Rand joins Loial and Hurin on the other side of the hollow, separate from the rest of the men. Loial is examining a half-buried, weathered stone which he thinks may have been worked in some fashion. The three lay down next to the stone. Rand goes to an uneasy sleep holding the Void.



Point of view: Padan Fain.


Fain reflects on the changes that Ba'alzamon made to him. He is now permanently aware of the location of the three tahveeren, especially Rand, except the moments when Rand uses his "vanishing trick." He followed the three to Shadar Logoth where he was transformed further. He carries the ruby-hilted dagger and it is now a part of him. He recalls his power struggle with the Fade, feeling weak every morning and losing command before wrestling it back later in the day. The weakness reduced gradually until he was able to take over completely and nail the Fade to the door in the village. The Fade had wanted to go north to the Blight and Shay'ole Ghoul, not south where they are going now.

He has twenty Trollocs under his command along with twelve remaining Darkfriends. He is annoyed that he let the Trollocs take an entire village captive, slowing him down. He orders the Trollocs to cut all the villagers down and eat what they can, but to leave the rest of the remains in a pile for Rand to find. He threatens to feed the remaining Darkfriends to the Trollocs should they get hungry again. The Darkfriends babble how they are important nobles and useful to him; he ignores them completely. He thinks about the Horn of Valere which is in a locked chest that he can't open. He is tired of following Rand; this time Rand must do the following. They will meet again on Toman Head. There he will kill Rand and be free of him at last.





Chapter 12. Woven in the Pattern.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.




Fal Dara keep is in turmoil after an attempt on the life of the Amyrlin Seat, Sewan Sawnchay. Lord Agelmar Jagad entreats the Amyrlin to wait until he has found the bowman before leaving, but she can wait no further. Amid much fanfare, the Eyes Sedai leave Fal Dara, accompanied by Shienarian soldiers. They head west towards the River Mora which is a tributary of the Erinin.

The Amyrlin sets a grueling march and the party rides for as long as possible before pitching camp shortly before dusk. LAN comes over one night and speaks with Nine'eev. Nine'eev comes back sobbing but will not discuss it.

Igwayne and Nine'eev are also visited in their tent by a different Eyes Sedai each night. Most give them lessons in channeling the One Power. Verin Mathwin comes first and explains that Igwayne is unusual in her eagerness to learn the One Power; Mworane also had the same eagerness. She walks the two through novice exercises to improve their ability to grasp saidar. Nine'eev refuses to participate until Verin tells her that she could become an Accepted with only a little training. Life is much more pleasant as an Accepted; novices must do chores and are expected to obey without question. Accepted are allowed to ask questions and choose their own studies. The exercises focus on serenity and surrendering to the Power. They are helpful for Igwayne and she slowly improves. Nine'eev, however, only gets progressively more angry until she lashes out and accidentally lights the blankets on fire, which Verin extinguishes. That puts an end to the lesson.

Alviarin, Alanna, and Liandrin all come on subsequent nights. Alviarin is strict in her lesson but also patient. Alanna asks them many questions about Rand, Mat, and Pairin, which makes Igwayne uncomfortable. Liandrin barely teaches at all and focuses on asking about the three boys until Nine'eev tells her to leave. Igwayne wishes Mworane was the one teaching them, but Mworane spends all her time speaking to the other Eyes Sedai and ignores them.

After a while, Igwayne begins to have dreams about Rand being in danger, and feels that there might be more to them than just regular nightmares. 



a man with a mask over his face, and fire in place of his eyes who was surprised to see her
a woman looking down at Rand sleeping in his cloak and Igwayne knew she was evil
a feeling of danger as if a trap was just beginning to snap shut


When they arrive at the village of Medo, she looks for Mworane to tell her about the dreams. Asking Anaiya, she learns that Mworane left with LAN days ago and Liandrin and Verin both disappeared on subsequent nights. The Amyrlin is enraged that the three left without saying anything. Anaiya's motherly face makes Igwayne feel safe and she tells her about the dreams. Anaiya considers the possibility that Igwayne is a Dreamer and promises to give her the proper training if so. Anaiya directs her to quickly join Nine'eev and the Amyrlin on the River Queen, bound for Tar Vawlyn.





Chapter 13. From Stone to Stone.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand wakes up and the hollow they were in is now much different. He sees Loial and Hurin next to him with their horses, but everyone else and their horses are gone. The half-buried stone is now an upright column in the ground. There are now steps leading up to the stone, in seven colors, one for each Eyes Sedai Ajah. Loial examines the stone and says he remembers reading about Stones that the Eyes Sedai in the Age of Legends used to travel to other worlds. This prompts Rand to think about the Power and his skin prickles. He thinks back to last night when he entered the Void while thinking about how to run away, and wonders if he brought them here with the Power subconsciously.

Hurin is worried that he won't be able to see his wife and children again, but hopes Rand will be able to get them back to their proper place. He has confidence in Rand, who he thinks is a lord, to fix what has gone wrong. Rand feels the weight of duty and decides to try to channel to bring them back. He touches the Stone and enters the Void; then he pictures the hollow as it had been, with the Stone half buried and the rest of the party present. Nothing happens and the Void shatters. Rand feels the taint on siedeen; his stomach lurches from the feel of filth. Hurin is now more confident in Rand than before because he can see that Rand is doing something. He tells Rand that he still smells the Darkfriends although it is fainter. Rand decides to follow the trail to at least recover the Horn and dagger if nothing else.

Loial looks at Rand questioningly. He saw that Rand touched the Stone trying to use it, and says that the Stones can only be used by the One Power. What did Rand hope to accomplish? Rand is caught by surprise but says that if the Darkfriends are here too then there must be another way to use the Stones. Rand will find out how.





Chapter 14. Wolfbrother.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Ingtar and Uno notice that Hurin, Rand and Loial are gone; they seemingly vanished. Ingtar is furious with disbelief that three men and horses can disappear without a trace and leave no tracks. Mat says that maybe they ran away, but Ingtar says Hurin has no reason at all to do that and he doesn't believe Rand would either. Mat is on the verge of saying more, but to Pairin's relief he stops and walks away. With Hurin gone, Pairin worries that the Darkfriends are getting away and they will never recover the dagger.

Pairin thinks he can talk to the wolves, maybe, and find them. Pairin thought for a while that this ability had to do with the Dark One or the One Power; he understands how Rand felt about being able to channel. Mworane had told him that it has nothing to do with the Power. Talking to the wolves may be the only way to find Rand or the Darkfriends, so he reluctantly reaches out to the wolves. The wolves mistake him for Long Tooth, their name for Elyas Machera, but soon realize who he is and they name him Young Bull. When he attacked the Whitecloaks with his axe, he seemed like a raging bull with metal horns to them. They have not seen Rand since he disappeared, but they know that the Trollocs are to the south.

Pairin finds Ingtar and tells him that the Darkfriends went south. Pairin says the wolves told him, and Ingtar is not surprised because he has heard of Elyas, a Warder who some say could talk to wolves. Pairin agrees when Ingtar says not to tell anyone about him speaking to wolves; they will tell the other Shienarans that Pairin is a sniffer. The other men are not too hard to convince, but Mat scoffs and tells Pairin that he's insane.

Pairin says he can smell something bad ahead of them. It is the pile of dead bodies killed by the Trollocs as Fain ordered. Just then, Verin Mathwin rides up to the party and says Mworane sent her. Verin has been galloping hard after them, passing through the village with the dead Myrddraal. She also reveals that she knows Hurin is a sniffer. Ingtar says he has a new sniffer in Pairin. Verin remarks that it is very fortuitous that there is a new sniffer just as the old one disappears; she eyes Pairin curiously. Verin accepts Ingtar's invitation to ride with them and demands that Ingtar tell her all he knows of Rand. Mat and Pairin know that Verin is after Rand and not the Horn or Darkfriends.





Chapter 15. Kinslayer.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand sees that there are char marks on the ground, seemingly in a straight line. There is no sign of animal life anywhere. No birds, foxes, minnows or any other creature.  They come to a stream and he makes the others wait to see if anything happens to him before he lets them drink.  After riding for half the morning, Loial gets out of the saddle next to a group of trees and sings, touching one of the trees.  He then holds in his hand a staff made from the tree, which now has new growth.

Hurin continues to follow the trail, but it is as if he is remembering the trail instead of smelling it. There is also no sign of anyone passing through this land. Rand takes the first watch for the night and Ba'alzamon appears again. Rand draws his sword but Ba'alzamon just laughs. He tries again to turn Rand to the Shadow and offers to teach him how to channel – lying that no one else lives can do that except him, if only Rand will serve the Dark Lord. He reveals to Rand that he has Darkfriends even in the White Tower and that he knows Rand is hunting for the Horn of Valere. Ba'alzamon says that Mworane did not lie when she called him the Dragon Reborn; Rand cannot escape from his fate, he will either serve or die. Rand denies being Lews Therin, being the Dragon Reborn. He denies that Ba'alzamon can touch him. Ba'alzamon makes Rand's sword glow and the sword hilt burns its heron-mark into the palm of his right hand fulfilling the Prophecy: "Once the heron, to set his path."





Chapter 16. In the Mirror of Darkness.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand, Hurin and Loial travel through the Mirror World. Rand has wrapped his injured hand with a kerchief. In the distance they see a spire and decide to investigate. In the real world it would have been the monument to Artur Hawkwing's victory over the Trollocs, but in this world the monument indicates a Trolloc victory. Loial realizes the nature of this world; it is a world that deviated from their own due to different events happening. They have not seen anyone here and Loial posits that the Trollocs killed each other after killing all the humans. Hurin thinks he spots a woman in the trees to the north, but Rand sees nothing.

Further south they come upon a woman who is trying to fend off a bear-like creature with a tree branch. Following the woman's instructions, Rand takes his bow and shoots the creature in the eye to kill it. She tells him it is a grolm. The woman's extraordinary beauty strikes the men and even Loial, and they stammer to speak to her. The black-haired woman is wearing white and introduces herself as Seleen, a Cairhienin noblewoman. She says that she went to sleep and then awoke in this weird place. She kneels before Rand in thanks. She asks Rand to get her home, but Rand says they have to find the men they are following first. Before Rand can stop him, Hurin blurts out that they are hunting Darkfriends and Trollocs to recover the Horn of Valere. Rand agrees to let her come with them on their journey, so he can help protect her.

Seleen talks to Rand as they ride, telling him that he will do great things. Rand thinks she sounds like Mworane and asks if she is Eyes Sedai; she denies it and implies contempt of the Eyes Sedai. She notices his injured hand but does not comment on the heron mark. She rubs ointment on it which removes the redness and swelling. Later she talks to Loial and Loial reveals that she told him many things about history and the Age of Legends. The Ways were created from study of these alternative worlds, where time and distance may be different from their world. Rand is skeptical that Seleen can know all these things, but Loial assumes she learned about them in the Royal Library of Kai'rienne.

Seleen returns to speak with Rand and Rand tells her about the Void. She encourages him to use it all the time. They spot another Portal Stone further south, and Seleen says it is the one she woke up next to. She asks him to go there and use it to take her back home; Rand is afraid to channel again and decides to find the Horn and dagger first. He tells Seleen that she must have used the Stone to bring herself here, so she can use it again herself. Seleen denies knowing anything about using Portal Stones and grumbles about his stubbornness. Suddenly a pack of grolm appear behind them.





Chapter 17. Choices.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Seleen says they must kill all of the grolm or go elsewhere and urges Rand to head to the Portal Stone. Rand is stubborn and decides to fight. Rand embraces the Void and looses arrows at the grolm, managing to kill all five of them. He feels the allure of siedeen while in the Void, the desire to hold it and feel truly alive. Seleen looks as though she is not affected by the grolm's presence. More grolm appear and Seleen points out that he will run out of arrows. Rand finally allows her to lead them to the Portal Stone. Seleen points out which symbol on the Stone is used to return to their world and has Rand channel while touching it.

The world flickers many times and they finally get out of the Mirror World, and Loial says they are in Kinslayer's Dagger. Rand is tempted to kiss Seleen but only tells her to keep the Portal Stone a secret. Seleen tells them they are probably ahead of Fain and the Trollocs, since time or distance can move differently in the Mirror World. Seleen wants to stay with them a few more days, to see if they can get the Horn. Rand reflects that Igwayne would never say he was wise, like Seleen did. Hurin goes to find a camp where they can watch for the Horn. They make sure not to sleep next to any Portal Stones.





Chapter 18. To the White Tower.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne and Nine'eev are onboard the River Queen, going to Tar Vawlyn. Nine'eev is seasick and sits in bed most of the time. From her dreaming, Igwayne is worried that Rand is in danger. Igwayne has been having dreams about a man in a mask hurting Rand.

The Amyrlin comes in their room to give them a lesson. Nine'eev makes to leave and says the lessons have been useless. The Amyrlin demonstrates the usefulness of the Power by wrapping Nine'eev and Igwayne in Air. The Amyrlin mocks Nine'eev and eventually Nine'eev retaliates by flinging the Amyrlin against the wall. Having succeeded in making Nine'eev angry, the Amyrlin is satisfied. The Amyrlin was told that Nine'eev can channel at her best when her temper is high. The Amyrlin shields Nine'eev which dispels her weave, demonstrating how much more she has left to learn. They go through a difficult lesson and Nine'eev is infuriated afterwards, but Igwayne is only excited at her own progress.

The ship docks at Tar Vawlyn and the girls can see Dragonmount off to the west. This sight makes Igwayne think of Rand. The people at the dock rush to greet the Amyrlin and the Eyes Sedai seem to have forgotten about Nine'eev and Igwayne. A dockman tells Nine'eev that her horse will be taken to the Tower, and they should get a move to get to the White Tower. Igwayne marvels at the beauty of the city.

Sheriam meets Igwayne and Nine'eev as they leave the ship, and says she is to show them to their rooms. Nine'eev says she is to be Accepted, skipping novice training, and the Mistress of Novices agrees even though it has never been done before. Nine'eev expresses her concern on how hard novice training will be for Igwayne. Sheriam reassures her that they won't be too hard on a novice, but that the first few weeks as Accepted are very difficult.





Chapter 19. Beneath the Dagger.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is laying on the ground trying to sleep at night. He thinks about how he has been wanting to leave and take Seleen back to Kai'rienne, but every day she convinces him to stay for another day. Rand is thinking that Igwayne must be in Tar Vawlyn by now and she would not be happy with the way he has been thinking about Seleen. Rand shifts around and sees Seleen search Rand's saddlebags, which should be next to him but are not. When he catches her she says she needs a new shirt because her dress is dirty. He grabs the bags from her, making sure they were still fastened and the Dragon Banner within still unseen. He gives her a new shirt even though her dress looks just fine. She asks him to unbutton her dress but he stammers and refuses. Rand brings up taking her back to Kai'rienne again, but she only talks about the glory Rand will have when he finds the Horn of Valere. He turns around to see that her legs are bare while wearing the shirt which makes Rand stammer even more.

Hurin suddenly runs up and stops, thinking that he has interrupted something. Loial wakes up and Hurin says that he saw a campfire. It must be Fain, Rand thinks. Rand wants to just shadow them until Ingtar catches up for a coordinated attack, but Seleen is disappointed, saying that Intgar will get the glory of finding the Horn. Seleen urges him to take Loial with him to the camp now. Ogier have better night vision than humans, and Loial can carry the chest with the Horn. Rand and Loial stalk to the camp after Hurin shows them where it is. Rand finds the chest that holds the Horn, and Mat's dagger lying on top of it next to a sleeping Fain. He reaches out, using the Void for calm, and grabs the dagger, putting it behind his belt. Rand motions to Loial to take the chest, which he does, and Fain wakes up as they move away. Fain howls to Rand in anger, but he can't see Rand or Loial in the darkness. They get closer to their horses but are soon blocked by Trollocs. Rand wraps himself in the Void and starts fighting, dancing sword forms, thinking that it would be better to die than to use siedeen, and kills at least seven. Eventually, Loial persuades him to stop fighting and withdraw. Rand mounts Red and Loial runs along with his horse which has the chest in its saddle.

When they get back to camp, Seleen is wearing her dress again, which is as immaculate as ever. She wants to see the Horn but Rand doesn't know how to open the chest. She is able to open it and Rand lifts the Horn out. Seleen reads the words on the Horn, Tia mi aven Moridin isainde vadin, and Rand puts it back. He tells them about the dagger, and how he needs it to help Mat. Seleen wants Rand to get rid of the dagger, but Rand says he needs it to save Mat. He places the dagger in the chest hoping it will be enough to shield them from it. Rand wants to take the Horn back to Shynarr, but Seleen says it would be foolish to go back north because the Darkfriends will be looking for them. They must continue on to Kai'rienne where they will be safe behind the walls. Rand realizes that Ingtar will also eventually arrive in Kai'rienne if he is still following the trail and agrees. He decides they must leave now because Fain is too close, so they saddle up the horses and leave during the night.



Point of view: Padan Fain.


Fain makes an example out of the Trolloc who reported to him that Rand was gone. He sends the Trollocs back out to look for Rand. He yells bitterly into the night, saying that Rand and the world will pay for what was done to him.





Chapter 20. Sai'deen.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand, Hurin, Loial and Seleen continue through the night toward Kai'rienne and away from Fain and his Trollocs. Seleen wants to see the Horn of Valere again in daylight but Rand stops her. Although he is tempted himself, he wants to keep the Ruby-hilted dagger in there shielded away from them. Rand keeps thinking that Seleen seems like Eyes Sedai, but she fervently denies it. They come upon a village which they want to visit to sleep in a proper bed, but Seleen wants to stay away, preferring to stay away from dirty men who would want the Horn for themselves if they discover it.

Nearby Rand can see what looks like an enormous statue with a hand holding a sphere coming out of the ground. It is the male Choedan Kal. He is instinctively drawn to it and goes to the site, where men are digging the statue out of the ground. Rand recalls Bayle Domon mentioning a giant hand holding a sphere sticking out of a hill on the island of Tremalking. Seleen tries to get him to move away from it, but Rand won't leave. Rand suddenly realizes that he is within the Void and feels siedeen flowing through him as the sphere pulses with energy. Seleen gets desperate and agrees to go to the village with him. Everyone tells Rand to come away from the statue, but Rand finds that he cannot let go of siedeen. To the others he appears in a trance; to himself, Rand feels glorious, like he could hold more siedeen than ever. Finally he breaks free but the guards at the bottom of the excavation have noticed them.

They come to The Nine Rings inn in the village of Tremonsien. The inn is named after one of Rand's favorite adventure stories. Seleen says she was very frightened at the statue and that Rand could have killed himself. Seleen asks Rand take the Horn and ride on with her and she will stay with him forever; Rand only says that the Horn is not his. She turns her back on him and refuses to speak.





Chapter 21. The Nine Rings.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


The group enters the inn where Rand sees a handful of soldiers playing dice and their captain at another table. The innkeeper, Maglin Madwen, asks if Rand is hunting for the Horn of Valere. Rand he says no, avoiding looking at Loial who is carrying the chest. They eat their dinner, and Madwen asks if Hurin will play the flute. Rand says it is his flute and obliges with some songs to stay in practice, expecting to need to work as a gleeman in the future.

Aldrin Caldevwin, the captain, comes over to see if he can find any holes in Rand's story. Having visited the Royal Palace in Kaymlin, Rand is able to pass as an Andoran noble. When Caldevwin begins to question Seleen, a maid drops a lamp and Seleen leaves to go to bed, claiming sickness. Hurin is seen by everyone in the inn as a servant, and no one talks to him. Rand asks about the statue he saw with a huge hand and a crystal sphere. Caldevwin tells him it is from the Age of Legends and says that he has a crew working on uncovering the statue so it can be taken to the capital. His guards watching the workmen need rotating on a regular basis and there will be another group heading back to the capital tomorrow. He asks for them to ride with Rand and assumes Rand will agree. When they get to their rooms, Rand asks what that was all about, the officer acting suspicious and all. Hurin explains that it is the Great Game, Dayes Day'marr. Cairhienin are plotting all the time and assume everyone else is plotting too.

In the morning, the innkeeper has a note for Rand written by Seleen, sealed with a crescent moon and stars. It says that she left because there are too many people and she doesn't like Caldevwin; she will be waiting in Kai'rienne and will never be too far away from Rand. Caldevwin is furious with his men that Seleen left during the night without any of them noticing. Rand accepts the escort of fifty soldiers and they proceed to the city of Kai'rienne.





Chapter 22. Watchers.






Point of view: Mworane Dawmodred.


Mworane sits surrounded by books and scrolls, frustrated that nothing is happening as she expects. She and LAN are in a town called Tifan's Well, in Arafel, where Adeleas and Vandene live. The two aged Eyes Sedai are sisters who retired from the White Tower a long time ago, intending to write the history of the world from before the Breaking to present times. The villagers do not realize they are Eyes Sedai and think they are only old village healers. Mworane is here because the sisters have the greatest collection of scrolls and books outside of the Tower library. Returning to the Tower now would cause Mworane lots of problems, so this is the next best thing.

Mworane cannot find what she is looking for which causes her to reminisce. She talks to LAN about their first meeting despite having said that she would never speak of it again. She asks LAN if he has ever regretted being bonded, but he says no. She tells LAN that in the event of her death, his Warder bond will be passed to Myrelle, a Green sister. She will not allow him to waste his life avenging her or going back to pointlessly killing Trollocs in the Blight until he dies. Mworane thinks her death is increasingly likely as events approach Tarmon Gai'don. Mworane says that Myrelle will only keep his bond until she finds someone more suitable. He is not happy about this, saying he won’t be passed around like a lapdog. Mworane won't tell LAN who she intends to end up with his bond, but indicates it may be a newly raised Eyes Sedai who will need guidance from a wise Warder.

Mworane asks again if LAN regrets his bonding, given that she can give him to whomever she wishes. LAN asks if the entire thing is a test after all. Mworane presses LAN and asks him about why he helped Rand prepare for the meeting with the Amyrlin. LAN says that he helped Rand stand up to the Amyrlin to make a strong first impression, so that he would survive being manipulated by Eyes Sedai. He then backtracks his words, saying that he still believes Mworane is doing the right thing, then blames it on tahveeren. Moraine sends LAN out of the room, saying she needs to think. Mworane knows LAN is in love with Nine'eev and thinks he helped Rand because of those loyalties. She expects LAN to ask her to release him from the bond sooner or later.

Vandene comes in with tea and asks if Mworane found what she was looking for. She hasn't and Vandene looks at the documents Mworane has around her. Mworane is researching the Prophecies of the Dragon including the original in Old Tongue, the Horn of Valere, the Watchers Over the Waves, Shadar Logoth and the Forsaken, among others. Vandene remembers that Mworane asked for privacy in her research and turns to leave. But Mworane decides to ask her questions, as even though she is Green Ajah, she has learned much of history due to spending time with her sister, a Brown. Vandene says that there is no direct link between the Dragon and the Horn of Valere in the Prophecies; the Horn must be found before Tarmon Gai'don but that is all. They discuss the intricacies of translating the Prophecies, as Vandene believes that one passage indicates that the Dragon Reborn will appear somewhere above Toman Head. She mentions that Mordeth lives in Shadar Logoth, waiting for a soul to steal. Mworane then asks about Lanfear. Vandene only knows that Lanfear was linked with Lews Therin but Mworane knows that also. Vandene then asks if Mworane knows about the Dragon being reborn, but Mworane only says that she knows as much as the Amyrlin does.  

Mworane goes out to the garden, finding no answers inside. A Draghkar is waiting for her. The Draghkar hums to her seductively, stopping her from channeling. Just as it is about to kill her, LAN and Vandene’s Warder Jaem kill it. Adeleas comes over and is relieved to see that Mworane is unharmed, then sees to Jaem. Adeleas cannot believe that Shadowspawn managed to get so close without any of them detecting it, but Mworane tells her it must have been warded. Adeleas says only a sister could do that, before realizing what Mworane is implying - the Black Ajah must have summoned and warded the Draghkar. Mworane must depart before she endangers the two sisters further. She leaves letters with Vandene to send to the Tower as Adeleas disposes of the body before any villagers can see it.





Chapter 23. The Testing.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev is ready for testing. Sheriam, the Mistress of Novices, takes her to the silver arches ter'angreal, and the ceremony begins. She has to pass through the arches three times to face her fears, once for the past, once for the present and once for the future. She is given a chance to refuse the testing and become a novice, but she wants to become Accepted so that she can learn at her own pace and ask questions as she desires. Once she starts the testing she must finish; if she refuses to continue, she will be expelled from the Tower without exception.

She goes through the first archway, and finds herself in a maze with no memory of her past. She only remembers an echo of Sheriam's voice, reminding her that the way out will come but once. After wandering through the maze for a while she encounters Aginor. She runs and he taunts her as he chases. Her fear changes to anger and she channels a fireball which strikes him in the chest. They begin a battle and Nine'eev is winning and close to finishing him off, but the exit arch appears. Frustrated, she abandons the battle and leaves. Sheriam tells her that she shouldn't have been able to channel in the arches and warns her not to do it again, as others who have done so have been burned out.

She goes through the second archway and sees Emmond's Field in shambles. She talks to the Marin al'Veer, who says Cenn Booie is mayor, and that Bran is dead. There is a new Wisdom, Malena Aylar from Watch Hill, who bullies people into doing things and murders those who stand against her. Nine'eev and Marin plan to get the Women's Circle to stand against her but the arch appears and Nine'eev begins to remember that it is not real. Marin screams for her help but Nine'eev turns and leaves through the arch. Back outside, Nine'eev is shaken and Sheriam explains that the test presents the novice with some compelling reason to stay; she must overcome this and leave to prove that she wishes to become Eyes Sedai more than anything else. Sheriam asks a final time if Nine'eev wishes to continue, knowing that the hardest test is to come. Nine'eev steels herself and runs through the third arch. 

Nine'eev finds herself in a beautiful meadow in a restored Malkier. LAN is there, and they kiss, but she doesn't want it. LAN tells her she is the queen of the Malkieri, and they have children. Nine'eev desperately wants to get out of the "dream," but begins to get caught up as if it was real. She misses the arch, but then she remembers everything - Igwayne alone in the Tower, Rand likely to go mad, Matt and Pairin in trouble, and all of it is Mworane's fault. She imagines blackthorns piercing her flesh which allows her to embrace saidar. Despite Sheriam's warning, she channels to force the arch to reappear and flees from LAN begging her to stay.

Nine'eev comes out and screams that she hates all Eyes Sedai; Sheriam states that this is a common sentiment. Then Sheriam notices her palms each have one blackthorn in them; when they are removed, they leave a scar in the front and back of each hand. This confuses Sheriam greatly, there should be no scars after Healing (these ones may be a symbol of her sacrifice). However, they can only finish the ceremony. Sewan and other Eyes Sedai are in the chamber now to confirm her as Accepted.





Chapter 24. New Friends and Old Enemies.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne is finally entered into the novice book and is shown to her room by an Accepted named Pedra. Upon entering her room she meets Elayne, a woman about her own age who has an air of dignity and self-possession about her. Elayne explains that new novices are assigned ones who have been in the White Tower awhile, to help them find their way. They both share a dislike for washing dishes and other chores and Elayne explains that with so many rules it is impossible not to break some eventually.

Igwayne is amazed to learn that Elayne grew up with Eyes Sedai. Igwayne proceeds to show off her abilities with the One Power by making a small glowing ball appear above her hand and explains that she has already had a few lessons. Not to be shown up Elayne copies the ball, even if it flickers a little. Igwayne is surprised to see a glow appear around Elayne and loses the source. This is the first time either girl has seen the aura around any channelers.

Because Igwayne is from Emmond's Field Elayne asks her if she knows a boy named Rand al'Thor. At this point Igwayne remembers Rand's tale about falling into a garden and meeting the Daughter-Heir of Andor. Elayne confirms who she is but insists that Sheriam Sedai would be angry if that became common knowledge.

Elayne explains more about the White Tower and how there are so few novices and Accepted today - only forty novices, of which only seven or eight will become Accepted. Elayne shares Sheriam Sedai's theory that the ability to channel is being culled out of humankind due to the Red Ajah's aggressive gentling of any man who can channel.

Talk returns to Rand and how Elayne's mother's Eyes Sedai advisor, Elaida, was very interested in Rand. Elayne pulls Igwayne out of the room and tells her of two other girls in the Tower who knew Rand. One is a novice named Else Grinwell who ran off to the Tower after Rand and Mat visited her family's farm.

While walking down the hallways a tall, handsome man with a sadness to his eyes appears in front of them. He is accompanied by an Accepted who tells him he should not be in the halls and if he needs air to go to the gardens. The man relents and is led away. Elayne explains that he is the false Dragon Logain, and even though he is gentled he still scares her.

Elayne leads Igwayne on so she can meet Min. Igwayne vaguely recalls the name and when she sees Min on a bridge in the garden she remembers why. She asks why Min is in Tar Vawlyn and Min answers that she was given the choice of coming of her own free will or coming tied in a sack. Min was brought so the Eyes Sedai can study her. Min sees images and auras around people and can sometimes understand their meaning. It is a talent that does not use the One Power. Around Elayne she saw that she would be a queen and the image held the Rose Crown of Andor. She also saw that Elayne will have to share her husband with two other women. Around Igwayne she sees a white flame and other things she can't interpret. She also saw a severed hand aura around Elayne but does not know the meaning.

Galaad and Gawyn approach the girls and Igwayne is mesmerized by the beauty of Galaad. He asks to see Igwayne again and she agrees. Content with her answer he turns around and leaves. Gawyn also asks about Rand, if he really was from Emmond's Field. He recounts how Elaida is interested in him. All three girls declare they are to be friends and fall into giggles hugging on the bridge. Gawyn leaves a warning about Elaida's intentions toward Rand. As if naming the Dark One, Elaida enters the garden, coming toward the group. Gawyn takes the opportunity to make his leave.

Elaida wastes no time putting Elayne in her place. Back home she was the Daughter-Heir, but here she is just another novice. Just then the bell sounds High, and she dismisses the two novices in order to interrogate Min.



Point of view: Min Farshaw.


As Min leaves the bridge she looks over her shoulder to make sure Elaida is not there, but the Red sister is nowhere to be seen. Min wonders how the Red knew that Mworane had brought her to Tar Vawlyn. As far as she knew only herself, Mworane, and Sheriam knew. Elaida asked many questions about Rand, and Min tried very hard to keep a straight face and steady eye when she lied and said she had never heard of him. As Min stomps off to find a place to cool off she says aloud that wherever Mworane is she needs to come to Tar Vawlyn so Min can leave. Min thinks about Rand who she knows very little about; she doesn't want to fall in love with him.





Chapter 25. Kai'rienne.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand, Hurin, Loial and the soldiers led by Elricain Tavolin arrive at the city of Kai'rienne. They pass through Foregate, the city around the city, where refugees from the farms near the Spine of the World have come since the Eye’eel War. The lands near the Spine are abandoned and no longer productive; Kai'rienne has to import grain from Andor and Tear to make up the shortfall. The king mollifies the refugees by paying for entertainment on a daily basis, which disgusts Loial. A procession of puppets pass by them, including fake Trollocs. Hurin says the Illuminators have a guild in this town as they see some fireworks. The Topless Towers are being repaired, but the Ogier are no longer assisting.

They come to the city gates between Foregate and Kai'rienne proper. The group gives their names and are told to return the next day with the name of their inn. Rand inquires after Seleen, but receives no response. Hurin leads them to the Defender of the Dragonwall. The innkeeper is called Cuale. The people here seem to think he is Eye’eel too. Kai'rienne makes him uncomfortable and he wants to leave, but needs to stay so Ingtar can find them and Seleen said she would be here. They are shown to their rooms and Rand wants to go back to Foregate where he feels more comfortable, but no one wants to come with him. Loial worries he will run into other Ogier who may know he does not have permission to be "outside." Hurin dislikes the smell of violence that permeates the Foregate.

In the common room, Rand gets invitations for parties from several Houses. He does not want to get involved in Dayes Day'marr, so he throws them into the fire. This startles Hurin and Hurin advises him not to do it again, as it is a grave insult to those Houses.

Rand goes outside and sees all the festivities in the Foregate. There is someone claiming to have an Eyes Sedai performing tricks. Then he hears Thom Merrilin. Thom says that his leg was injured by the Fade but he survived because the Fade ran off after Mat and Rand at first opportunity. Thom is surprised to learn that Mworane was confident that he was still alive, and assumes she was after Mat or Pairin because she is no longer with Rand. Thom seems disappointed that Mworane is not around. Thom tells Rand to bring his instruments to the Bunch of Grapes where he is staying.





Chapter 26. Discord.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand gets back to The Defender of the Dragonwall and convinces Loial to come with him to see Thom. They go to The Bunch of Grapes and the innkeeper sends them up to his room. Dena is waiting there, practicing her juggling. She tells Rand that she will become the first woman gleeman. Thom enters and Dena and he kiss, making Rand uncomfortable. He complains about a group of 'players' that pretend to be different heroes from legend. She introduces Rand and Loial and Thom sends her to collect her knives.

Thom tells Rand that he had word about him from Basel Gill. Rand offers Thom a part in a big adventure and tells him that they have the Horn of Valere. Thom doesn't believe him. When he tells him Mworane also says it is the Horn of Valere, he stops laughing. He tells him that Trollocs and Myrddraal are after them and tells them about their plans for the Horn. Thom doesn't want any of the glory.

Rand asks Loial to leave he and Thom alone. When he is gone, he asks Thom about the Karaethon Cycle. Thom quotes some of the prophecies and is suspicious about Rand. Rand says that no Eyes Sedai are going to use him and that Mworane is far away. After prompting, Thom tells Rand about Owyn and how the Eyes Sedai who gentled him gave him no chance. Rand tries to convince Thom to come with them once again, but Thom refuses. He is happy enough with life and with Dena. He doesn't want to be tangled up in events and won't even let Rand tell him what inn he is staying in.

Point of view: Thom Merrilin.

Thom is tempted to follow Rand with the Horn of Valere, but still decides against it. The innkeeper, Zera, accuses him of getting himself involved in the Great Game again. Thom says that Rand is only a shepherd from the Two Rivers, but she doesn't believe him, thinking that he must be an outlander lord instead. She warns him that the Game has become more dangerous and that he shouldn't be playing at so many lords' manors. She urges him to settle down and to marry Dena. Thom thinks it would be unfair to burden the girl with an old husband. He concludes that Rand must not be a channeler after all, or the Eyes Sedai would not have let him go ungentled.





Chapter 27. The Shadow in the Night.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand and Loial leave The Bunch of Grapes to return to the city, Loial lamenting Dena's win at dice. Rand sees one of those Trolloc puppets approaching, accompanied by five puppeteers. He thinks they can wait for Ingtar no longer and is planning to leave as soon as possible. Before he realizes what is happening, the Trolloc leaps for him and he unsheathes his sword and strikes. It is a real Trolloc! The accompanying men, presumably Darkfriends, turn and run. Another Trolloc grabs Rand but Loial fights it. The Trolloc and Loial grapple with each other in the street so Rand cannot attack with his sword, lest he accidentally hit Loial. The Trolloc is trying to draw its sword to kill Loial, so Rand tries to channel to save his friend, but siedeen won't come. He feels only the taint, not the Power. Fortunately, Loial breaks free and throws the Trolloc against a building, killing it. Loial is a bit shaken as he had never killed anything before.

They see Trollocs in every direction pretending to be puppets. Fain must have sent them, but they must want to stay hidden as they are disguised. Rand and Loial will be safe if they can get into the populated streets, but slowly they are corralled to the eastern end of town where all the houses have shuttered windows. They end up outside a walled area with several buildings which Loial identifies as the Illuminator's Chapter House. Suddenly, Seleen appears. Rand tries to get her to leave so she doesn't get hurt. She calmly asks him what trouble he is in and tells him that the man who carries the Horn of Valere should not be troubled by mere Trollocs.

They try to sneak into the Illuminator's Chapter House. Seleen wants him to seek the Oneness to calm himself. Seleen finds a door along the wall and as they are about to enter, Loial says Illuminators kill intruders. Rand thinks it must be better to deal with humans who can be reasoned with than Trollocs, so they go inside and move along an alleyway between two buildings until they come to an open area. They hear the Illuminators, Aludra and Tammuz, arguing about the preparations for tonight's firework display. Then Rand notices all the fireworks piled up in the clearing, which unnerves him. They slowly move between the fireworks, trying to remain unseen and unheard. Loial accidentally sets off one of the firework tubes, which causes Rand to knock Seleen over to try to protect her body.

The commotion attracts the Illuminators and Aludra starts berating Tammuz for it. Then Loial finds Trollocs behind them. They are trapped between the Trollocs and Illuminators. Seleen still talks about Rand's greatness and how proud she will be of him after he gets them out of here. Rand tries to come up with a plan to escape without channeling and shoots a firework at a Trolloc, and there is an explosion and one of the buildings is on fire. The Trollocs are nowhere to be seen. As the Illuminators scramble out of a nearby building to investigate, Loial says Seleen went the other way and they cannot find her now. The burning building illuminates the entire area so they can only run before they are caught.

They return to the inn where the innkeeper gives Rand a sealed parchment left by an old woman. The note, which must be from Seleen, calls Rand dangerous and unpredictable; yet it tells him to think of the Horn, glory, and her. Rand can only sink into a chair and hope that Ingtar arrives soon.





Chapter 28. A New Thread in the Pattern.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin, Mat, Ingtar and the Shienaran soldiers continue after Fain and the Horn of Valere. Mat seems paler than he once was, likely due to his separation from the stolen dagger. Healing by Verin seems to have no effect. Pairin notes that Verin is focused on Rand and assumes that she knows his secret somehow. Verin wants them to move faster than even Ingtar. Ingtar desparately wants the Horn and keeps asking Pairin to relate the events the wolves saw even though Pairin has explained it countless times. The wolves saw Shadowkiller attack the Darkfriend camp, and now the Darkfriends are following Shadowkiller. The wolves are in awe of Shadowkiller. Ingtar thinks Shadowkiller might be Shadowspawn, but Pairin assures him that it is not a Fade.

Uno spots an Aielman in the rocks, who then comes out to the path to meet them. The Aielman gives his name, Urien. Mat says the Aielman looks like Rand. Ingtar talks to the Aielman and wants to know if he's seen the Trollocs they follow, but he hasn't. When Urien identifies Verin as a Wise One, she identifies herself as Eyes Sedai and asks how they choose girls to become Wise Ones. The Eye’eel send men who are to be clan chiefs and women who are to be Wise Ones to a place called Roy'deonne. That is all he can say. Urien thinks Verin will kill him when he cannot give her a full answer. The Eye’eel have a prophecy that says that the Eye’eel failed the Eyes Sedai once, and should they do so again, the Eyes Sedai would slay them. Urien says he searches for He Who Comes with the Dawn. There are signs and portents to know he has returned. Urien says, "He will be of our blood, but not live among us," and draws the ancient symbol of Eyes Sedai in the dirt. Urien says, "...under this sign he will conquer." When Verin says she cannot help him, he departs.

Mat asks Pairin whether he thinks the Eye’eel was talking about Rand, who many think is Eye’eel. Pairin can only shrug. Verin muses over what Urien said. Ingtar has the soldiers remove their armor and they continue on to Kai'rienne.





Chapter 29. Shawn'chin.






Point of view: Jeffrem Bornhauld.


In a village there are many prisoners and also many that have been hanged including children. Bornhauld questions one of his men and it becomes clear that the villagers were hung by disguised Questioners. The Lord Captain does not like that the Children's Questioners have been so violent, and says to tell the remaining villagers this will not happen again, and goes into the inn. Bornhauld is seeking information on the invaders from Toman Head, but what he hears is not credible. 

A messenger arrives with a message from Jay'kem Carriden telling him to stay away from Toman Head and focus on rooting out the Darkfriends on Almoth Plain. Byar wants to follow the instructions but Bornhauld dismisses them as ridiculous, as they have seen no Darkfriends on the Plain. Certainly not the children who were hanged. Bornhauld decides they are going to Toman Head to confront the invaders who are the true Darkfriends. He questions one of the local soldiers who has been captured regarding the invaders.



Point of view: Bayle Domon.


Bayle Domon's ship, the Spray, is being chased by a Shawn'chin vessel, and Domon attempts to get too close to shore for the larger ship to pursue him. He recalls learning about the Shawn'chin as he traded with villages on Toman Head. When the villages tried to defend themselves against the invaders, lightning from the sky devastated them. The invading soldiers also attacked with monsters and quickly subdued all resistance. After each village was conquered, the Shawn'chin would force the populace to reswear forsaken oaths, without explaining how the oaths had been forsaken. They also examined each woman and some would be taken to the ships never to be seen again, often the Guides and Healers. They would also replace the Mayor and Village Council, and anyone protesting any of that would often be killed. Yet after having done all that the Shawn'chin typically left and never returned. Fal'meh was the only town they stayed in to occupy.

After hearing all those stories of these Shawn'chin, Domon wants to avoid them if at all possible. Sudden explosions in the water force him to reconsider, and he surrenders. The leader of the boarding crew wears a helmet that looks like an insect, but when the helmet is removed, Domon is surprised to see a woman. She asks if there are women among his crew or passengers.  No, he says, wondering what they want with them. Two women board. One of them has a collar, the other has a bracelet with a chain connecting the two. The captain says her name is Egeanin. She wants Domon to swear fealty again. He thinks the one on the collar end of the leash is Eyes Sedai and says so. Egeanin slaps him saying, "We do not use that name, there are only the Leashed Ones." He says he does not mean disrespect and hears her call them damane. Egeanin says she will claim these lands again, and then he will know all their ways. She orders Domon to sail to Fal'meh where his ship will be inspected and if he is confirmed to be a peaceful trader as claimed, he will be let go.

Egeanin places one man on Domon's ship, Caban. Domon is able to get Caban to answer a few questions, although when he asks about the damane Caban threatens him with a sword. The closer the two ships came to Fal'meh, the more Shawn'chin ships he sees. He counts over two hundred. Domon sees the watch towers on the shore. The Watchers Over the Waves they are called. A cage hangs over the watch towers with a man sitting inside. Domon asks about it, and Caban says he is the First Watcher, not the original since a new one is chosen each time the old one dies. When he asks why he is in the cage again, she says, "He watched for the wrong thing, and forgot when he should have been remembering."

Egeanin and her soldiers along with the damane search Domon's ship once the crew was on the dock. Then Domon sees a three-eyed monstrous-looking thing on the dock being led by someone in one of those strange helmets. When Egeanin and her soldiers come onto the dock from searching his ship, she has something in her hands.

She leads Domon through the town with her soldiers. Domon can see that the people of Fal'meh are very afraid of the Shawn'chin and their strange creatures. Egeanin takes him to see High Lord Tworock. Domon realizes Egeanin took the Seal from his ship. She gives it to Tworock and is dismissed. Tworock questions Domon about it and he says that he doesn't know what it is. Domon follows Tworock into another room where he has a cabinet with another Seal, among other things. He says only the Empress has a bigger collection of cuendillar. Domon is a collector of old things, so the Lord wants to talk to him. Someone brings Tworock a cup with black liquid, kaf. Tworock wants to know how he came about the Seal, and Domon decides to lie all about it until the Lord is satisfied and lets him go.





Chapter 30. Dayes Day'marr.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


No one has heard the truth of what happened at the Illuminator's guild a few nights ago. Rand knows what happened though and thinking about them makes him think of Seleen. Hurin is becoming increasingly Cairhienin in his subservience, flustering Rand who is not actually a lord. There is a knock at the door which opens to reveal the innkeeper with more invitations. Rand plans to burn them like the others but Hurin notices that they are from the two most powerful nobles in Kai'rienne, Lord Barthanes and the king, Galldrian Riatin. Hurin tells Rand that he must not burn these, because the other nobles he had previously insulted were of lesser Houses. They assumed that he is allied with more powerful nobles and therefore waited to see what would happen; but should he burn these as well, they will realize he is really allied to no one and will no doubt act to repay his earlier insults. Yet Rand cannot accept one or even both invitations without the Cairhienin assuming he is in some plot against them. Rand decides to let everyone see him in the common room with them, unopened and apparently pondering over them. This is a temporary delaying tactic though and will only work for a few days; they must get out of the city soon.

Rand leaves the inn with Loial, leaving Hurin to stand guard over the Horn. Loial lists the various ways to get out of the city safely without help from Ingtar but concludes none of them would work. They go to the guard house and again they are told that no one named Ingtar or Seleen has passed through. He asks about Caldevwin whom Rand saw in the guardhouse but the guard claims to not have seen him either. Rand is immeasurably frustrated at the Cairhienin and Dayes Day'marr and having no control over events. He wants to blame Mworane who started it all but admits it's not really her fault that he started pretending to be a lord, even if he only did it because there was always a compelling reason to do so.

They are walking back when Loial notices a fire up ahead and they see that it is their inn. Running inside, they see people with buckets trying to put out the fire. It appears to have started in their rooms. Rand and Loial go up the stairs and crawl to their rooms. Hurin had been attacked and  quickly loses consciousness; they discover the chest is gone. Loial is worried about his books, but realizes he'll have to leave them so that he can save Hurin; Rand cannot carry Hurin while crawling to avoid the smoke. Rand looks back at the Dragon Banner and remembers Mworane saying that his life may depend on it; he recovers it even though he would rather let it burn. Outside, a Reader is tending to Hurin but admits she cannot really do anything for him. Rand turns around and sees Mat, Pairin, and Ingtar. Rand sits down in the street and laughs bitterly.





Chapter 31. On the Scent.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Verin heals Rand and Hurin, and Mat and Pairin poke fun at Rand for being a "lord" again. Then Rand has to tell them he lost the dagger and the Horn. Mat says Pairin is a sniffer like Hurin. The local Reader realizes Verin is Eyes Sedai, to the astonishment of the crowd. Rand says they should go somewhere else for conversation and Verin decides on The Great Tree inn. Hurin confirms that he can follow the trail of the people who took the chest. Rand tells him to rest awhile before doing so, since the Darkfriends probably cannot open the chest. He gets looks from everyone else which causes him to apologize; with the return of Ingtar he is no longer in command. Ingtar says that Rand is a fine leader.

They arrive at The Great Tree where the innkeeper, Tiedra, clearly knows Verin is Eyes Sedai although she does not say so. Rand has a bath in his room, transferring things from his dirty coat to the clean one. He finds Seleen's letters and after considering, decides to burn them. If he could marry anyone it would be Igwayne, but she wants to be Eyes Sedai and he is doomed to go mad anyway. He goes down to the private dining room where the others are waiting.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


When Rand enters the room, Pairin has a sudden memory of the wolves. He thinks Rand is the Shadowkiller the wolves talked about. Hurin has left to track the Darkfriends and will return so they can follow the trail tomorrow. Ingtar asks Rand if he wishes to go after them tonight. Rand says he was not trying to take over, and that they can decide that in the morning. Pairin realizes Rand is changing, becoming more confident. Verin wants to know how they got to Kai'rienne ahead of them. Everyone turned to stare at Rand, all wanting the answer. Pairin thinks about how the wolves are amazed by him. Rand tells them about Portal Stones and how they got there, and Seleen. Verin says the name of the Stones is not widely known. She would like to meet this Seleen. Their food comes, and Pairin finds himself thinking the lamb is too well-done. He is not comfortable with this thought.

Hurin returns to the room, saying he found the Darkfriends at the Lord Barthanes's manor. Ingtar is shocked that Barthanes is a Darkfriend, but Verin is not. Hurin suggests sneaking in with two people, but Mat suggests telling the king that Barthanes is a Darkfriend. Verin agrees that the king would help them, but also says that the king would take the Horn and use it to promote his own greatness. They cannot let anyone else get it. Verin says that as an Eyes Sedai she can get them into the manor. 

Hurin points out that Rand happens to have an invitation from Barthanes as well as the king. Verin is pleased that the Wheel has provided a solution for them. Rand says they will know he is an imposter if he tries to go to their parties. Verin points out that the Cairhienin will assume any mistakes he makes will be due to Dayes Day'marr, and all he needs to do is to carry on an arrogant manner. Rand finally agrees, and Ingtar agrees to have his men outside the manor in case Fain tries to leave with the chest.

Verin asks about Barthanes's note which mentions one of the king's projects; Rand realizes it must be the huge statue that they were digging up. Verin says that it is a male sa'angreal, and together with its female twin it could strong enough to break the world again. This shocks everyone but Verin says not to worry as no Eyes Sedai would assist a male channeler in doing so, and very few are strong enough to use the female sa'angreal safely in any case. Verin looks at Rand as she is saying this and Rand is deep in thought. Pairin knows Rand has a lot to learn and hopes he won't be used by the Eyes Sedai.





Chapter 32. Dangerous Words.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Uno and ten Shienarans escort Rand's party to Lord Barthanes's manor house and then join the other escorts. Rand, Verin, Ingtar, Loial are the main party with Hurin and Mat along as servants, which greatly disgruntles Mat. Hurin and Mat will see if the can find the Darkfriends, Trollocs, the Horn or the dagger. Barthanes comes to greet the group after they are announced.

The group splits up and they mingle with the crowd except for Rand who wishes to avoid talking to the nobles. Loial tells Rand that he feels a Waygate nearby which means the new manor is sitting on the site of a former Ogier grove. Loial then follows Verin's instructions and leaves to speak to the nobles. There are many entertainers including acrobats, jugglers, gleemen and instrumental groups. Barthanes comes up to Rand and probes with questions on many subjects. Rand answers as best he can or as Verin advised. Barthanes seems to think he may be a son of Queen Morgays, perhaps trained by Warders. In the end Barthanes is convinced that every single response by Rand is part of Dayes Day'marr.

Rand enters a room where Thom Merrilin is the entertainer. Thom sees him but clearly is not interested in greeting him, so Rand turns to leave. But then he is accosted by Alaine Chuliandred who blocks his exit along with Belevaere Osiellin and Breane Taborwin. They corner him and invite him to their manors. He finally uses Thom as an excuse to get away. Thom notes that he is entangled with Eyes Sedai again and he tells Thom that Verin is helping recover the Horn which was stolen by Darkfriends including Barthanes. Hurin approaches with a story that Mat has hurt himself, which allows Rand to get out of the room. Thom gives Rand a final caution about mixing with Eyes Sedai.





Chapter 33. A Message from the Dark.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Hurin brings Rand to the garden where Mat and Loial wait. Loial shows Rand where they found a walled enclosure. The estate used to be a Ogier grove and the Waygate is inside the walls. Rand sends Mat to see Verin and Ingtar to let them know the Horn of Valere has left via the Ways. Mat grumbles about being a servant and mentions Rand going mad, and Rand is worried that Mat is going to let slip that he can channel. They climb over the wall but no one is there. Hurin is worried about traveling the Ways since he has heard you come out mad if you come out at all. Rand opens the gate so he can show Hurin that he can follow the trail in the Ways. Loial sees Machin Shin inside the gate and Rand drops the Avendesora leaf that is the key to the gate.  The Black Wind appears to be trying to get out of the gate but the portal barrier stops it.  Rand can hear what the voices inside are saying and embraces the Void, channeling the Power instinctively to hurl fire at the Black Wind. Rand holds off the Black Wind with the Power until Loial finally closes the gate. Hurin thinks the fire was part of the Black Wind. Rand says they cannot use that to catch up to Fain, and Hurin asks to leave.

They decide to ask Verin to find a way to follow the Horn. When they go back inside the manor house, everyone seems curious as to what Rand and Loial were doing. Barthanes approaches and asks if they will stay longer, but Verin refuses. Barthanes detains Rand to give him a message from Fain. “I will wait on Toman Head for you, if you do not meet me, I will harm those of your blood.” Barthanes also has questions for Rand which don't receive answers. Barthanes appears shocked at the information he has given which may be a tahveeren effect. Then everyone goes outside, and Rand tells them of the message from Fain.

They return to The Great Tree where Pairin is waiting so they can decide what to do. Ingtar believes the message about Toman Head must be a trick, but Rand tells them they can do what they want, but he is going to Toman Head. Loial, then Mat and Pairin agree to go also. Verin indicates that writings made in the dungeon when the Horn was stolen indicate a connection to Toman Head. Verin says Stedding Tsofu has a Waygate and they will go there, and follow using the Ways. Rand asks Verin why Mat looks worse and Verin says he is wasting away and may only have weeks left unless he gets back the dagger. Verin asks Rand whether he has accepted his role in the Pattern yet but Rand says that he will only recover the Horn and the dagger and that is all.





Chapter 34. The Wheel Weaves.






Point of view: Thomdril Merrilin.


Thom is on his way back to his room in The Bunch of Grapes early in the morning after the night's festivities. The nobles at Lord Barthanes's party questioned him about Rand after Rand talked with him. Thom went to The Great Tree intending to speak with Rand, but found that Rand and his party had already left. He returns to find Dena on the bed, dead with her throat cut. He hears the wardrobe door opening and spins, throwing his knives. One attacker is immediately killed and the other is wounded. Thom questions the attacker who is still alive and he tells Thom he is getting information on Rand for Lord Barthanes. Thom does not believe that he works for Barthanes, since Barthanes would not have let Thom leave the manor in that case. The man babbles desperately, telling Thom that he saw a lady while investigating Rand. Thom kills the man, telling him that they should have left Dena alone.

The innkeeper Zera comes in. She sees the dead men and tells him that Lord Barthanes was killed after the party, torn to pieces by someone or something. Given his presence at the party coupled with the bodies, he will surely be blamed if he doesn't leave Kai'rienne immediately. She tells him she will take care of the bodies and he gives her the money from the nobles at the party, to pay for bribes if necessary. Moving closer to the bodies, Zera tells him that the men really worked for King Galldrian. Thom tells her that he has someone he has to kill before he leaves. They see the city granaries starting to burn outside. Zera tells him to think of Dena and not to get himself killed. Thom departs with the air of a man on a mission.



Point of view: Padan Fain.


Fain approaches Fal'meh after questioning locals about the Shawn'chin. He finds that much of what he dismissed as fables is actually true. He arrives at the house and headquarters of High Lord Tworock. He tells the officer in the street that he has something of interest to their high lord. The soldiers bring Fain to the Tworock along with the chest containing the Horn of Valere and the Ruby-hilted dagger. To Fain's surprise, Tworock is able to open the chest. Fain identifies the Horn, but Tworock recognizes it as well. They move to Tworock's trophy room, where the Horn is set up as a prominent display. Fain tries to take the dagger which he claims is his, and Tworock's servant stops him, saying a hand that steals from High Lord Tworock is cut off.

Tworock questions Fain's claim to ownership since the dagger was in a chest he couldn't open. Tworock tells him that he may have the dagger if he proves himself sufficiently interesting. Tworock questions why Fain would give him the Horn; Fain tells him to sound the Horn and break the White Tower with it. Fain forces an obsequious manner and spins a tale of his ancestors serving Artur Hawkwing and hating Hawkwing's death at the hands of the Eyes Sedai. His family has always awaited the return of the armies of Hawkwing from across the Aryth Ocean and the Horn was passed down through the generations within his family. Fain presses Tworock to sound the Horn but Tworock's servant cuts him off; Tworock plans to give the Horn to the Empress. The Horn is linked to its sounder and will not function for others until the sounder has died. Sounding it would send a message to the Empress that he intends to replace her; that would be overly ambitious and likely end with him in the hands of the Seekers for Truth. Tworock tells Fain to entertain him, telling him stories although he may not believe them, and perhaps Fain will be given as a gift to the Empress. Fain is interested in having access to a ruler again, especially one who rules an empire. Tworock says he will keep an eye out for the Darkfriends who pursue Fain.





Chapter 35. Stedding Tsofu.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand, Mat, Pairin, Verin, Loial, Ingtar and the Shienaran soldiers are on their way to Stedding Tsofu. They plan to use the Waygate there to catch up to Padan Fain and take back the Horn of Valere and the Ruby-hilted dagger that he has stolen. A Waygate seems to be the only way they can travel to Toman Head before Mat succumbs to being separated from the dagger. Mat looks increasingly worse and Verin tries to Heal him repeatedly to no apparent effect.

Pairin wants to know if they will be safe in the stedding. Loial says Shadowspawn are afraid to go in and Eyes Sedai don’t like it, since they cannot touch the Source inside a stedding. Other creatures such as wolves are not afraid of it, however. As they pass through the boundary of the stedding, everyone has a reaction to it; Rand feels a strong chill as if he fell into a winter pond, yet it is refreshing at the same time. The surrounding forest looks much the same, however. Inside Erith welcomes them and promises to escort them to the Elders. She asks them to have some of the soldiers with weapons wait outside of the stedding. Loial explains the Longing to Pairin, where Ogier begin to weaken and die if they are away from the stedding for a long period. They move further into the stedding and Rand can hear treesinging in the background. 

As they reach the stump at the center of the stedding they encounter three Eye’eel Maidens of the Spear. The Eye’eel are surprised to see them and get ready to fight, veiling themselves. They approach at a deliberate pace which causes the men to arm themselves, except Mat. Mat declares that he is leaving since he doesn't want to be killed yet won't fight women. Verin, Erith and Loial yell at everyone to stop, to no avail. Rand enters the Void to defend himself, then realizes siedeen is not present like it usually is. Then an older Ogier, Juin, comes out of the woods and asks the Eye’eel if they’ve forgotten the Pact, which finally causes everyone to relax. The Ogier says they are safe in the stedding, just like everyone else. The Eye’eel disappear into the trees, and Verin is led to the meeting place to see the Elders. Verin seems to want to speak to the Eye’eel but does not get the opportunity. The Eye’eel stare at Rand and mutter contemptuously about his sword. The rest of the party is shown to a house by Erith where they can await the decision of the Elders.

While they are waiting, Mat and Pairin tell Rand the Eye’eel may be searching for him. They met another Eye’eel on the way to Kai'rienne who was searching for the Car'a'carn. Mat says that since the Eye’eel are looking for an Eye’eel on this side of the Spine of the World and Rand is the only one known, it could be him. Rand denies being Eye’eel again but remembers what the Amyrlin had said; others had thought he was an Eye’eel too.

Hurin is pleased to be inside the stedding, as there has never been violence here and the air has never been fresher for him. As they wait, many Ogier girls come to the house to provide services. Older Ogier women also stop in to make sure everyone is comfortable. They all take a look at Loial as they leave, even as he is trying to hide himself behind a big Ogier book. Loial worries they may be planning to settle him down with a marriage. An Ogier man has no choice to decline a marriage if his prospective wife and his mother agree. Rand assures Loial that he'll be able to leave with them; Loial bemoans his choices of either getting married or again risking his life in the Ways. Finally they are all called to meet with the Elders.





Chapter 36. Among the Elders.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand and the others are being brought to see the Elders of Stedding Tsofu. Rand suggests to Loial that he wait outside so perhaps the Elders will not dig in to why he is outside while so young.  Loial is still very nervous because all of the girls and women seem to be sizing up as a husband or son-in-law.

Alar, the Eldest, greets them and tells them that Verin has requested to use the Waygate to pursue Darkfriends who have stolen the Horn of Valere. The Elders ask Verin to examine Trayal, an Ogier that traveled the Ways long ago, to demonstrate the risks. She tries, but says he is simply an empty shell. Still, Verin insists that they need to continue via the Ways despite the risks and the Elders reluctantly give their permission. The Elders begin to speak of Loial but Rand cuts in quickly and says that they need him. Pairin, Mat and even Ingtar all speak on Loial's behalf but finally Verin says flatly that they need him to decipher the Guidings in the Ways, since he has studied them as few Ogier now do. Alar sees that Rand is tahveeren and has drawn Loial to him; she agrees to their request but firmly tells them see Loial safely home when their task is complete.

Alar says she will lead them to the Waygate so they can be on their way. Loial is all starry-eyed over a flower Erith has given him. He finally presses it in the book he is reading. As they leave the stedding Rand can feel the return of his ability to channel. But when they open the Waygate, Machin Shin is still waiting for them. They cannot use this Waygate either, so Ingtar says he will return to Kai'rienne and pursue the Horn from there. Hurin suggests they use a Portal Stone since they previously saved time traveling with one. Verin says she does not know of any Stones closer than the Eye’eel Waste. Rand says he can find the one in Kinslayer's Dagger although that is still a few days away. Alar says the Stones have not been used since the Age of Legends and she did not think anyone knew how to use them. Verin says she knows how they are used. Alar says there is a Stone not far from where they are and they go there with haste.





Chapter 37. What Might Be.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


The Ogier Alar and Juin lead Rand and the rest of the group to a nearby Portal Stone so they can travel to Toman Head and retrieve the Horn of Valere and Ruby-hilted dagger from Padan Fain. Verin says goodbye to Alar and the Ogier depart.

Rand and Verin move close to the Stone to discuss while everyone else stays further back, out of earshot. Verin has some knowledge of the Stones. Rand mentions Seleen and Verin assumes that she learned what she told Rand from the book Mirrors of the Wheel, of which there is no surviving copy known to the Eyes Sedai. The symbols at the top end of the Stone are used to travel between worlds, while the symbols at the bottom are used to travel between locations. Verin claims she is not powerful enough to activate the Stones and she only knows the meaning of a few of the symbols. Verin points to the symbol for Toman Head as well as symbols for other worlds that she knows were involved in the study that led to making of the Ways. She tells Rand that he'll just have to arbitrarily pick one of these alternative worlds and quotes her father, saying that it's "time to roll the dice." She says that the Pattern needs Rand and hopefully that will be enough to keep him and everyone else alive. Rand chooses the world with the symbol of an arrow pointing left towards Toman Head, breaking free from a circle; Rand wants to break free from his apparent destiny.

Verin calls for the others to gather close to the Stone. She puts her hand on the Stone, pretending that she is starting to channel. Rand enters the Void and notes that it is much easier to do now. He channels using the symbols he has chosen. Instead of being directly transported to Toman Head, the travelers are shown the possible lives they may have lived had circumstances been different. Rand is subjected to many alternate lives where events and decisions had gone differently. As this happens, Verin realizes something that has gone wrong but cannot do anything to stop it.



Rand is killed when Trollocs attack his home on Winternight.
Rand marries Igwayne and has children and stays in the Two Rivers while events unfold outside. Igwayne becomes Wisdom and cares for his moods, which often caused lightning strikes and other storms outside. He is wasting away after Igwayne's death until he goes off to fight Trollocs at the River Tawwren and is killed.
Igwayne dies of channeling sickness so Rand leaves with Tam's sword. Tam sends him off with a letter to join the army of Illian and hopes he will return with a wife, but Rand is robbed in Baerlon and can only make it to Kaymlin where he joins the Queens' Guards. He eventually falls defending Elayne from the Shawn'chin.
Countless other lives flash before his eyes, including ones where he is a beggar, king, gleeman, and even an Eye’eel. Sometimes he declares himself the Dragon Reborn; sometimes he runs from the One Power. Sometimes he marries Igwayne, sometimes Igwayne is the Amyrlin Seat and gentles him. Sometimes he loves and marries Min or Elayne or women he does not recognize.


In each life, he feels that things are not right and something else was supposed to happen. Each one of them ends with his death and a voice inside his head saying, "I have won again, Lews Therin." Eventually he loses hold of siedeen and it is over. The rest of the party seems stunned by what they have seen of their alternate lives. Verin has no answers for Rand on what actually happened except that they did arrive at Toman Head and it appears that four months have passed. They really didn't save time although this way Mat doesn't die on the way.

Ingtar mutters fervently that he walks in the Light. Mat apparently betrayed Rand in some of his futures and pleads with Rand that he would never really do that. Pairin seems resigned that his wolfbrother aspect is part of his life now. Verin makes rounds of the party Healing them in some way that helps them get over what they experienced, all except Rand who refuses help from an Eyes Sedai. Rand hopes it is not too late and that Padan Fain is still waiting for him.





Chapter 38. Practice.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne is practicing in her rooms at the Tower. Nine'eev and Min are there with her and they talk about how good looking Galaad is. They talk about Else looking at Galaad intently in the courtyard but Galaad was only interested in where Igwayne might be. Elayne comes in and says King Galldrian is dead so there will be a war of succession in Kai'rienne. Igwayne has not dreamed of Rand for several months. Anaiya has been recording her dreams and comparing them to real events to test whether she is a dreamer; there is no conclusion as of yet. Nine'eev is in a foul mood after a visit to Sheriam's study after she clouted another accepted. They discuss the danger of drawing too much of the Power and burning out. They ask Min what she sees. She says she sees danger around them and that it is a new viewing, different form what she has usually seen.

Liandrin comes in and says Nine'eev should not be associating with novices since she is Accepted. Min and Elayne are sent out of the room. She says Rand and the other boys are in great trouble from Shay'ole Ghoul. She claims that Mworane sent letters to the Tower inquiring about Nine'eev and Igwayne. They need to go to Toman Head in order to help them. Nine'eev challenges Liandrin on what she has said and what she is not saying and why the two of them would be able to help. Liandrin tells them to meet her at the Ogier grove, and tell no one because the Black Ajah are in the Tower.

Min and Elayne come in, saying they heard everything from Elayne’s room. Min says she’s coming with them to get away from all of the prying by the Amyrlin and Brown Ajah sisters. Elayne says she’s going too. Igwayne and Nine'eev try to talk her out of it and finally ask Min to try also. But Min shakes her head and says that Elayne has to come too, because Min has read them again and now sees that Elayne is part of the danger. Nine'eev begins making plans for the trip while Igwayne worries about Rand.





Chapter 39. Flight from the White Tower.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Nine'eev, Igwayne, Elayne, and Min walk through the Tower grounds, wearing their best clothes, except for Min who is dressed as a servant. They hope everyone sees them as just people waiting to talk to the Eyes Sedai, like the other commoners and nobles in the Tower grounds. Along the way they evade Takima of the Brown Ajah and then Irella and Else, turning away before they can be recognized. They make it to the stables without being stopped and Nine'eev gets the stableman to give them their horses. Liandrin had left word with the stableman beforehand that they would be coming. 

They make it to the Ogier grove, and Liandrin meets them. Liandrin is furious when she sees Elayne and Min since they were not supposed to tell anyone. Elayne says they were not told, but overheard and wish to help Rand and the other boys also. Liandrin comments that she had made arrangements to take care of Elayne and Min but not exactly what kind of arrangements.

Liandrin leads them to a Waygate, and opens it. Igwayne and Behla go through the Waygate too fast since time moves differently in the Ways. She has to slow Behla down when they get across the threshold. Inside the Ways there is a pressing darkness against the light such that the light is dimmer than it should be. Min asks how long they will be here but Liandrin replies curtly that it will be as long as it takes. Liandrin is using a parchment to interpret the Guidings and choose their path. They can all feel the Power, but know that it would be tainted, and they should not touch saidar. They stop to eat, the rest sitting away from Liandrin. Igwayne asks what they should do if they encounter the Black Wind and Liandrin says that she will deal with it. Min wants to know what it is, and Elayne explains. Igwayne wishes somehow she can stop Rand from going mad but realizes that if it could be done, the Eyes Sedai would know. 

They discuss Rand and Igwayne mentions that she is unlikely to marry so if one of the others marries Rand, she won't mind. Elayne says that Rand is the most interesting man she's ever met and she might be interested if Igwayne is not. They sleep and Igwayne dreams of the man with flames in his eyes. In the morning Liandrin leads them on, seeming to want this over with as fast as possible. They spend a long day traveling and a short night resting. Liandrin finds a Waygate and announces that they have arrived.





Chapter 40. Da'MAW'nee.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne exits the Waygate followed by Nine'eev, Elayne, Min and then Liandrin. At least 50 soldiers in strange armor are waiting nearby. There were two women holding bracelets attached to collars worn by other women. There was also a palanquin with a woman reclining on it. Igwayne asks Liandrin who they are. Liandrin tentatively greets High Lady Suroth who is the lady on the palanquin. Suroth addresses Liandrin and tells her they must finish quickly so she can return before Tworock misses her. 

Liandrin tells Suroth, referring to Igwayne and Nine'eev, “these are the two of whom you were told.” There is another, Liandrin says, the Daughter-Heir of Andor, gesturing to Elayne.  The Shawn'chin begin to collar the girls and a man grabs Elayne and Min. Suddenly chaos erupts as Min uses a dagger on the man and Nine'eev channels raising dust and wind that allows her and Elayne to escape. A woman clasps a collar around Igwayne's neck. Igwayne hits the woman holding the bracelet, and feels as though someone has hit her.  

Some of the party are gone, chasing Nine'eev and Elayne. The woman holding the bracelet attached to Igwayne’s collar tells her that she is a sul'dam and Igwayne is damane, and whatever hurt the sul'dam feels, the damane feels twice over. Renna is her name, and she says Igwayne must do what she’s told, then she asks her name. Igwayne asks Liandrin why they are here but receives no answer. Renna punishes Igwayne through the a'dam until Igwayne tells her name. Then Renna pats her head as if she were a dog. Suroth makes reference to “our master” when speaking with Liandrin. Igwayne decides she hates Liandrin for giving them to these people. She wants to know who this master they talked about is, thinking maybe it is the masked man from her dreams. When she asks about it, her sul'dam says she does not need to know. Renna says that an Eyes Sedai came up with the idea of the a’dam. The party heads off towards Fal'meh and Renna begins to train Igwayne.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev thinks at least one of the linked women can channel, perhaps both but she did not get a good enough view of them. She called the lightning and tossed fireballs and killed at least one soldier. She is furious that Liandrin betrayed them but the anger is fading and she can no longer channel. Elayne comes out from behind a tree and says that Min and Igwayne must have been captured from what she saw. Elayne believes she is a coward since she ran away as soon as she was free. Nine'eev convinces her that the odds were too much against them to do anything else. Nine'eev says they will go to Fal'meh after they find suitable clothes to blend in. They will trade the dresses they have for more suitable ones.





Chapter 41. Disagreements.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


It is very cold and raining where they are traveling.  Hurin is searching for the trail left by Fain and the Trollocs, but without success so far. Rand asks Verin to change the weather. Verin says she can't do much by herself and she would also be detected by the Shawn'chin damane who would come after them. Loial seems to worry more about his books getting wet than himself. Pairin wonders aloud why Fain would bring the Horn of Valere here. Verin and Ingtar debate the matter without coming to a conclusion. Mahsemma rides back to them and says there is a village up ahead but all the villagers are gone. Ingtar dismounts in front of what appears to be an inn. Uno takes the rest of the men and searches houses for food and blankets. Hurin says there was killing in some of the houses. Ingtar insists he must have the Horn. He sounds desperate. Rand still thinks that he wants to get away from Eyes Sedai. He finally tells the group that Fain will harm Emmond's Field if Rand does not find him, which was part of the message from Barthanes. Uno comes in, and said he could not find any people and most of the houses are stripped and the livestock gone. Ingtar begins to organize a wider search for the trail left by Fain.

Rand goes upstairs and finds a lumpy bed. It will have to do as he lays down. He rolls around in the bed and suddenly sees Ba'alzamon is standing next to him holding the Dragon Banner. He calls Rand Lews Therin again, and asks if he will kill everything he loves again. Rand says he is not Lews Therin, and that he will die before he follows Ba'alzamon. Rand draws on siedeen and hurls fire at Ba’alzamon. Ba’alzamon again says he is the only one who can help Rand learn to channel. Rand squeezes his eyes shut and when he opens them again he is alone in the room. The Dragon Banner is exactly where he left it in his saddlebags. But he can see tendrils of smoke rising from the chair.





Chapter 42. Fal'meh.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Elayne and Nine'eev have been in Fal'meh for weeks. Nine'eev is still sickened by the sight of damane. She thinks she sees Padan Fain among the crowds, followed by a high ranking Shawn'chin servant. She has taken off the serpent ring. Elayne tells her she has stolen apples, and Nine'eev says she shouldn’t steal things, but was surprised at how expensive everything was here. Elayne briefly channeled for a distraction to pull off the heist. Nine'eev has been trying to release damane that they pass on the street, but the damane are not interested in being freed. Nine'eev is still trying to figure out how to get those collars off. The two are staking out the damane quarters, which they know as such because women have been seen taken inside to be collared. Nine'eev needs to figure out how to free Igwayne before it is too late.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne looks out the window from her room. She can see Renna in the garden. Min is in another house but has fewer restrictions than Igwayne. She uses the power frequently to try and remove the collar. The bracelet hangs on a peg on the wall. A damane who tries to move the bracelet will feel ill. Min arrives for her “weekly visit.” She has a nice dress, and a ribbon in her hair. Igwayne asks why she’s wearing a dress, and Min says she had to. The Shawn'chin did not know what to do with her, since she does not channel the way Igwayne does, so they decided she was a serving girl and should dress as such. Min says she has found a ship captain who is willing to take them away from the town. Igwayne says she will have to stay here, as she cannot get out of the a’dam. Igwayne asks Min to give her a knife so she can demonstrate that damane cannot even touch a weapon.

Igwayne has encountered two Eyes Sedai who have been captured. One is Ryma Galfrey now called Pura. Igwayne asks Min to remember Ryma and her since the Shawn'chin are going to send her by ship to Shawn'chin in a few days. Renna gave her a test yesterday and Igwayne was able to pick out different types of ore while blindfolded, showing that she would be useful in Delving for ore. Renna comes in and can tell that Igwayne was channeling without permission. As punishment she changes Igwayne's name to Tuli, after a pet kitten she once had.





Chapter 43. A Plan.






Point of view: Min Farshaw.

Min flees the damane quarters as Renna punishes Igwayne for channeling without permission and blames herself. She hears her name being called and turns to find Elayne and Nine'eev disguised in long fleece coats. She tells them of her meeting with Bayle Domon and her plan to escape Fal'meh on a ship. Domon wants to leave but is afraid to do so because of the threat of the damane. Min senses that if she just keeps talking to him, he will talk himself into leaving. But now the Shawn'chin plan to take Igwayne back across the Aryth Ocean because she can find ore, so time is running out.

Min has new viewings of Nine'eev and Elayne which mean trouble for both sometime in the future.



a man's ring of heavy gold above Nine'eev's head
a red-hot iron and an axe above Elayne's head


The three women go down to the Three Plum Blossoms Inn near the docks to meet Domon. Domon says that Tworock sends for him every two or three days to tell Tworock about old artifacts, and he is concerned that Tworock will kill him once he is no longer interesting. He would leave now except he is afraid that the damane would tear his ship apart. Nine'eev shows him her Great Serpent ring to give him confidence that he can escape. At the same time Min sees LAN's Golden Crane signet ring from her viewing a short time before. Nine'eev promises that he will have three channelers to aid in his escape and Domon agrees to be able to sail at an instant any time in the next few days. But he tells Nine'eev that he witnessed an Eyes Sedai captured by the Shawn'chin, her Warder killed. As Doman watched, six damane surrounded her. She screamed, then yelled out to one of the damane "Ryma, help me." This Ryma is likely the same Ryma Igwayne mentioned meeting to Min. Doman sees one of the damane then collapse in tears. They leave the inn and Nine'eev comments that they still have one or two small problems to solve before they can take ship.





Chapter 44. Five Will Ride Forth.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin is with Mat and Hurin as they search for the Horn of Valere. They are scouting ahead of the main party. Hurin picks up the trail of Fain who passed through the village they are visiting but not with Trollocs. As they decide to leave the town, Pairin sees Whitecloaks entering. After riding for a while, Pairin asks the nearby wolves to check if they are being pursued. The wolves see more Whitecloaks, but none of them moving the direction of Pairin. They decide to follow the trail a bit more before returning to Ingtar.



Point of view: Jeffrem Bornhauld.


Bornhauld sees Pairin and remembers that he was the lad who claimed to be a blacksmith. Bornhauld does not want to hurt any of the villagers so he plans to lock them up in the inn. They will eventually get the courage to break out, but that will be long enough. He is trying to avoid notice by the Shawn'chin or letting anyone get away who might report them. Shawn'chin patrols had fought with the Children and the one damane they faced caused a lot of casualties. Bornhauld did not like fighting their women, even the ones on leashes. He does not expect to leave Toman Head alive, though, knowing that they will be fighting channelers. Bornhauld incorrectly believes the channelers fighting for the Shawn'chin are Eyes Sedai breaking their oaths to not use the One Power in battle. He commands Byar to hold himself away from the battle and then escape to report how things went. Byar needs to survive to report that Eyes Sedai are now willing to fight with the Power and that the Questioners had manipulated the rest of the Children. He mentions that he had seen Pairin as they entered in the village to encourage Byar to survive to return with the report. They do not see the huge winged shape above their heads.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Ingtar watches Rand practice with the sword while they wait for the group searching for Fain. Rand is concerned that the scouting party is long overdue. Loial is reading but clearly concerned. Verin is unaffected and is only using a stick to write in the dirt repeatedly before clearing it away and starting over. Ingtar comments on Rand's use of Heron Wading in the Rushes, saying that he would find it irresistible to aggressively attack Rand in that stance, even while knowing he would be open to counterattack while doing so. Rand says that he is just practicing it for balance.

Uno says there are horses coming. The others finally return and Mat says that they found Fain's trail and followed it close to Fal'meh. Pairin tells Ingtar they also saw Whitecloaks. Ingtar acknowledges that Verin was right all along and they could have gone to Fal'meh much earlier had he listened to her, but Verin is unconcerned over the delay, saying it is the Pattern's design. Ingtar says he will take a small group with him to Fal'meh since all the locals have said that anyone is free to enter the town. Verin manipulates the group so that only five men will set out for Fal'meh - fulfilling the prophecy that five ride forth. Rand, Mat, Ingtar, Pairin, and Hurin are the ones chosen either because they are needed or because they volunteered before others did. Many more wish to go but Verin is firm and there are no more objections. Verin draws spokes of a wheel in the dirt as the party members are chosen. Then she scuffs the wheel and Rand sees that one spoke is missing. Five ride forth, and four return is the passage in the Karaethon Cycle.





Chapter 45. Blademaster.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev, Min, and Elayne set a trap as part of the plan to rescue Igwayne. It is early morning when there are few people in the street. If anything goes wrong, Nine'eev plans to create a distraction so the other two can get away, but she won't let herself be taken alive. Nine'eev sees a sul'dam and damane pair and mentally angers herself with what Min told her of how damane are controlled so she can channel. When the collar falls to the ground, the damane punches the sul'dam in the face. Elayne tries to get the damane to come with them but she runs away. Nine'eev grabs the sul’dam, gagging her and putting a sack over her head. Nine'eev makes Elayne pick up the collar. They drag the woman through the alleyway and into a building. They take off the bag over the woman’s head and tie her up. Nine'eev puts on the sul'dam dress and puts on the bracelet. They had prepared dresses so either could be the damane depending on the size of the woman they captured.

Nine'eev says Elayne has to wear the collar but then decides to try it on the sul'dam first. Min says the leash is not supposed to work on anyone who cannot channel. It is not supposed to work on the sul'dam. Nine'eev prepares to interrogate the sul'dam who laughs at her, but then she sends sensations through the a'dam and the sul'dam is now terrified. The sul'dam, Seta, promises full cooperation and begs to have the collar removed. Using the collar sickens Nine'eev so much she cannot make Elayne wear it and she hits upon the idea to incorporate Seta into their plan.



Point of view: Bayle Domon.


Domon stands on his ship, waiting for the women and preparing the crew for a hasty departure. They will continue to wait unless Shawn'chin soldiers come.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand, Mat, Pairin, Ingtar and Hurin enter the town separately so that they will not be known as a group. They stable their horses and continue on foot. Rand brought the Dragon Banner to keep Verin or anyone else from finding it. Now that they are in town, they stay together and let Hurin follow Fain's trail. But Fain has been all over the town and Hurin cannot find a useful path. After wandering the streets for a while Mat says he can feel the dagger in a big house with guards and damane outside. There are also grolm outside which Rand and Hurin recognize from their trip through the Mirror World. They amble around outside the house to an alley, trying to find a way inside without alerting the guards. They climb a garden wall, kill the guard in the courtyard and pass through the kitchen. Mat leads them to the room with the dagger and it is empty of people. The Horn of Valere is on a stand in the room. Mat grabs the Horn and the dagger, but they still need to escape unseen. Rand looks outside the window and sees damane, one of which looks like Igwayne. He says he has to get her out of here.

Tworock walks into the room with two servants and several soldiers. Tworock was expecting to find Padan Fain coming to steal the dagger. A soldier tries to take the Horn from Mat. Mat slashes him with the Ruby-hilted dagger and he dies a horrible death. Ingtar leads the others against the soldiers while Tworock faces Rand. Tworock is a blademaster and believes Rand is one also since he wields the heron-mark sword. Initially Rand does not use the Void and is getting the worse of the exchange. Tworock is disappointed at Rand's skill and moves in for the kill. Rand realizes he has to stay alive to save Igwayne and the Void fills him, but not siedeen. He switches from trying to defend himself to an all out attack which succeeds. Rand sees blood on his blade and the High Lord on the floor. The two servants kill themselves ceremoniously while Rand watches in disbelief.

Ingtar and the others rush back into the room, bloodied. Mat says that all the servants prostrated themselves during the fighting instead of helping the other Shawn'chin or raising the alarm. Hurin looks out the window and warns that people are coming. Ingtar says they have to leave, telling Rand that he can't save Igwayne by staying here. Rand leaves with the others but promises to return and free Igwayne. Mat continues to keep the Horn, despite Ingtar's efforts to grab it.





Chapter 46. To Come Out of the Shadow.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev, Elayne, and Min are approaching the damane quarters and see commotion up ahead from High Lord Tworock's retainers. She is dressed as a sul'dam holding an a'dam linked to Seta, who is cooperating lest she be discovered that she can be leashed. Elayne and Min are dressed as a servants. Min leads them to the room where Igwayne al'Veer is being held. Igwayne is held by an a'dam and tells the others that she has been dreaming of Rand al'Thor coming. After being freed, Igwayne slips into one of Nine'eev's spare dresses. Igwayne explains that the a'dam prevented her from moving it even it was just left lying around. Nine'eev places Seta's a'dam on a peg in the room which they now know she can't move.

Igwayne then reveals that sul'dam claim that they develop an affinity with women who channel, but this isn't quite correct. Sul'dam can actually channel; they are the women who can be trained to channel but do not have the spark. The ones with the spark end up as damane. Sul'dam are picked during a feastday in Shawn'chin, where they put on the a'dam to see if they can feel the other woman. They are then taken away to be trained as sul'dam. Just then Renna walks in. Before she realizes what is happening, Igwayne snatches a pitcher and throws it into her stomach. She jumps on Renna and snaps her old a'dam round Renna's throat. She makes Renna feel pain through the a'dam. Nine'eev pulls Igwayne off of Renna. Igwayne begins to sob, saying that they made her feel great pain through the a'dam. The women discuss killing the sul'dam for what they did, but Nine'eev says that would be revenge. Instead, Nine'eev delivers justice by leaving Renna and Seta in the room still held by the a'dam.

They leave the building unhindered and Min realizes that there is nobody on the streets. A Shawn'chin patrol walks towards them. They are discussing what to do when Igwayne reacts violently and calls lightning down on the Shawn'chin, screaming that she won't be collared again. Many are killed and the rest flee. Then fireballs begin raining down on them and they have to dive out of the way. Nine'eev becomes angry and begins to channel lightning back towards the origin of the fireballs. She hopes Bayle Domon is still waiting for them.



Point of view: Bayle Domon.


Domon waits at the wharf. Lightning and fireballs begin to light up the sky, some falling close to where Domon is. Domon stops Aedwin Cole from cutting the mooring cable. Fire and earth begins to spray all around Fal'meh. Domon gave his word and won't leave till Nine'eev arrives.



Point of view: Jeffrem Bornhauld.


Jeffrem Bornhauld and his Children of the Light under his command wait near Fal'meh. Lightning is ripping the sky. Bornhauld sends Jaret Byar away. Bornhauld's mounted legion advances toward the Shawn'chin.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is trapped in an alleyway watching a group of Shawn'chin approach. They are trying to evade the patrols to escape the town with the Horn. He is cut and bleeding from his fight with Tworock Aladon. Ingtar Shinowa tells Rand that the Horn of Valere must be saved. Pairin Eyebarra, Matrim Cauthon and Hurin are at the other end of the alley watching another Shawn'chin patrol. Rand has a very strong feeling that Igwayne is in trouble. He hears sounds of lightning and explosions further down the street. Ingtar tells Rand that a man could hold fifty men in the alley; songs have been made about less.

Suddenly Ingtar reveals to Rand that it was him who let a man inside Fal Dara, and that he did not know what that man intended to do until the arrow was shot. He didn't know either whether it was meant for Rand or the Amyrlin Seat. Ingtar talks about his struggle as a man who was born to hold the Borderlands against the Shadow, protect the Southlanders who don't even believe in Trollocs anymore. He explains that him turning to the Shadow seemed a logical decision to save the Borderlands. "Better the Shadow than oblivion, like Caralain, or Hardan." Rand is shocked, unbelieving; he asks Ingtar to say it plainly. With unshed tears in his eyes, Ingtar admits that he wanted to blow the Horn for his own salvation, to wash away his sins so that he can come again to the Light. Ingtar also tells to Rand that whether he is a shepherd or a lord, he is a better man; he was never after glory, he was ready to give it up to save his friend Igwayne.

Ingtar remembers the alternate lives revealed to him at the Portal Stone, that as many lives he had lived he never managed to escape from the Shadow. Sometimes he held the Horn but he never sounded it. He always tried to escape what he'd become, but he never actually could. The Dark One would always require things of him, each one worse than the last. Ingtar, now with dedication, tells Rand that there is always a price to pay, there has to be, and he hopes this time he can pay it. It is every man's right to choose when to Sheathe the Sword, even one like him. Ingtar turns to face the Shawn'chin by himself to buy time for Rand and the others to escape while they can. Rand relieves him with the burial-words of Shienarans, asking the Light to shine on Ingtar and for him to be sheltered in the palm of the Creator's hand. "The last embrace of the mother welcome you home." Ingtar is relieved, standing just as when Rand first met him, confident, relaxed, content. Rand departs with the others, leaving Ingtar to his chosen fate.

Another prophecy of the Karaethon Cycle is fulfilled, "five ride forth, and four return."





Chapter 47. The Grave Is Nor Bar to My Call.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand and Hurin meet up with Mat and Pairin and they hear Ingtar fighting back in the alley. Rand tells them that they must leave Ingtar to his fate; it was his choice to stay behind to buy them time to escape. They mount up and leave. Mat has the Horn of Valere tied to the pommel on his horse. After they make it to a hill overlooking the town, Rand tells the others to take the Horn back to Verin; he has to go back to free Igwayne. Mat disagrees and wants them to stay together; they can all return to help Igwayne. Pairin notices that the Shawn'chin are forming up for a battle outside of Fal'meh and none of them can go back. Hurin sees that there are Whitecloaks on the other side of them. They are trapped between the two armies. They all look at the Horn and Mat comments that nowhere is it said that it can't be used before the Last Battle. Mat blows the Horn. A fog rises and blankets the land. 



Point of view: Jeffrem Bornhauld.


Bornhauld hears the bittersweet note from the Horn and sees the fog appear. He assumes it is the Shawn'chin's doing. He tells the legion to advance at a trot. The damane begin to target his Legion and men begin to die. He orders his men to charge and prepares to die.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand's perspective changes and he sees all of the area around Fal'meh, yet he is still standing next to his friends. Rand sees the Whitecloaks, and they die under the Shawn'chin swords.  Rand sees the ships, and knows one is Bayle Domon’s. Then shapes appear out of the fog and Rand know who they are. All those come back from the grave, the great soldiers of old; Artur Hawkwing, Birgitte Silverbow, and others. Surprisingly they are few in number; only a hundred or so.

Rand addresses Hawkwing, the leader of the heroes and says they need help him to drive the Shawn'chin back but also to save Igwayne. Hawkwing addresses Rand as Lews Therin and says they will help. Birgitte laughs, saying that Lews Therin always gets in trouble with women. Hawkwing feels something is missing and Rand produces the Dragon Banner. Hawkwing is pleased and says that they will follow the banner and Rand, the Dragon; Mat and Hurin start to believe. Pairin chops a nearby tree branch into a flagstaff and attaches it to the banner. Rand tells Hurin to stay back, but he refuses and Hawkwing comments that possibly he will be a new hero.

With Mat as trumpeter and Pairin as bannerman, they ride into battle toward Fal'meh. The fog thickens as they continue riding and soon Rand finds that he is riding alone; suddenly Ba'alzamon appears in the mist which causes Red to rear abruptly and throw Rand off his back. Rand holds onto his sword as he soars through the air, but instead of landing on the ground he finds he is floating in the mist. He is alone with Ba'alzamon seemingly far above the battle. This is Rand's battle, even though he can see the others. He assumes the Void and reluctantly begins to fight Ba'alzamon, who is armed with a black-charred staff.

The battle fought by Rand with the Ba'alzamon is linked to the battle fought on the ground with Pairin, Mat and Hurin and the heroes of old. At first Rand fights defensively but then notices that if he retreats, the Shawn'chin advance. Ba'alzamon believes Rand blew the Horn so that he is linked to it. This reveals to Rand that Ba'alzamon does not know all that goes on. Ba'alzamon admits that he is behind Igwayne and Nine'eev being taken to the Shawn'chin so they can be carried across the ocean and not be available to aid Rand. Ba'alzamon insists that Rand must serve him or die, it is the only way. Finally Rand feels that he must Sheathe the Sword the way LAN told him in order to win the battle. He must win so that Igwayne can be saved. He takes the sword form Heron Wading in the Rushes, which leaves him open to attack, but which also allows him to strike home at his opponent. Ba'alzamon strikes and Rand receives a wound in his side that cannot fully heal, but he drives his sword into Ba'alzamon and wins the battle.





Chapter 48. First Claiming.






Point of view: Min Farshaw.


Min runs up the street, trying to find Igwayne, Elayne and Nine'eev. She sees the Spray sailing away, but doesn't blame Domon for leaving. She thinks shes sees Birgitte and Artur Hawkwing fighting the Shawn'chin near the docks. She feels like she is being pulled by a string. She runs through a house and finds Rand in the garden behind, unconscious. The hilt of the sword has branded a heron mark into his palm. She finds the wound in his left side. With great difficulty she drags him inside and into a bed. He has no body heat, so she gets into the covers with him, trying to take away the icy chill of his body.

Igwayne appears in the doorway, saying that she and Elayne felt Rand pulling at her but Nine'eev did not. Igwayne leaves to fetch Nine'eev to Heal Rand. Min considers that there are three women destined to be part of Rand's life, one of them she doesn't even know yet. And she wonders which he will choose or will he try to choose all three? Someone else stands in the door, the most beautiful woman Min has ever seen. She says that Rand is Lews Therin Telamon; he is the Dragon Reborn. She wears a white dress with silver jewelry. She tells Min that she is Lanfear and that he is hers.



Point of view: Jaret Byar.


Byar, still close to where the battle took place, sees that Jeffrem Bornhauld is dead, and he thinks that a Darkfriend like Pairin must have betrayed them. He has to tell Dain Bornhauld that his father is dead and Pedron Niall what he had seen in the sky above.



Unanswered Questions[]


Was Lanfear drawn to Rand the same way that Igwayne, Min, and Elayne were?
Why wasn't Nine'eev drawn to Rand?
How did Lanfear appear and disappear without a Gateway?
Why didn't Min have any of her visions while looking at Lanfear?




Chapter 49. What Was Meant to Be.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand wakes up in a forest with blankets over himself. He feels a tight bandage wrapping his abdomen and sees Min sitting on the ground looking at him. She says they are five days east of Fal'meh, and he's been sleeping this whole time. Min says Nine'eev and Elayne freed Igwayne. Elayne, Igwayne, Hurin, Mat and Verin are going to Tar Vawlyn, taking the Horn with them. There is a heron on both his hands now. He remembers the Prophecies and realizes what it means. He tries to look at the wound on his side and Min says it is not fully healed. Min tells him Mworane said Nine'eev Healed it a bit and Verin also attempted Healing. However, she says Nine'eev claimed to be too frightened to channel, and that Verin said the Healing did not work properly. Rand realizes Mworane is here and he is still not free of Eyes Sedai.

Mworane responds to her name and Rand tells her to go back to hiding. Mworane says she was not hiding; she was in Toman Head doing what she could. Unfortunately she could not help the two Eyes Sedai who were captured by the Shawn'chin. She says she did not send Verin to him. She wants to know if he found Fain. Mworane says Fain is worse than a Darkfriend. He is worse, more evil, a blend of two evils because he was infused with the soul of Mordeth in Shadar Logoth. Mordeth tried to take over his body but could not do it fully because Fain was already claimed by the Dark One. Mworane shows Rand his sword, but it is ruined now.

Mworane tells him that he fought Ba'alzamon in the sky over Fal'meh and everyone saw it. She produces an illustration by a local artist of the event. Rand's likeness is unmistakable. He wants to destroy the parchment, saying he won't be the Dragon; he won't break the world. But it is too late, he has followers now, and the tale is being told everywhere of how he fought the Dark One above Fal'meh. She says that the Pattern weaves itself around him and he cannot run from it; he needs Mworane's advice to help him. His presence in Kai'rienne sparked the present civil war even though he was trying to do nothing. The Black Ajah revealed itself for the first time in a thousand years. Arad Doman and Tarabon will likely be in chaos as a result of what people saw over Fal'meh. She produces two more Seals which are broken now. Rand decides he still has to find Fain.

Rand gets up with great difficulty and the women help him over to the campfire. Loial is there reading a book; he is not unhappy that Rand is even more important than he knew. The Dragon Banner is standing erect in the middle of the camp. The Shienarans led by Uno gather around Rand and pledge allegiance to him. Rand tells them that Ingtar died in the battle a hero, and tries to get them to go back to Fal Dara with that news. Uno refers to the Prophecies and says that the coming of the Dragon breaks all bonds so they no longer need to keep their oaths to Lord Agelmar. Mahsemma calls Rand the Lord Dragon. Mworane emphasizes that the Last Battle will come whether Rand likes it or not; will he shirk his duty or do what he must? Rand finally decides he must accept what the Wheel has woven for him.





Chapter 50. After.






Point of view: Omni.


Tales of a great battle and the Dragon Reborn spread across the land, sparking conflict between those declaring for the Dragon with those opposed. There are many variations with varying degrees of truth, but the part about the Dragon appearing in the sky above Fal'meh is constant.





