Chapter 0. Fortress of the Light.






Point of view: Pedron Niall.


Pedron Niall is holding audience with Jaret Byar. He is looking at a drawing of a gray-eyed youth with reddish hair; the newly proclaimed Dragon Reborn. Byar confirms that he is a false Dragon. He says that thousands in Tarabon and Arad Doman have declared for the Dragon and there is fighting in both nations and the Almoth Plain in between. He reports that Jeffrem Bornhauld and a thousand of the Children were killed by Eyes Sedai aided by Darkfriends calling themselves Shawn'chin. Niall believes that this proves the Three Oaths - to speak no word that is not true, to make no weapon for one man to kill another, to use the One Power as a weapon only against Darkfriends or Shadowspawn - are a lie. Niall tells Byar to bring Dain Bornhauld news of his father's death. Before he leaves, Byar insists that a particular Darkfriend, Pairin Eyebarra from the Two Rivers, is to blame for it all.

Niall wonders about the other two false Dragons in Tear and Saldaea, and the reports of Eye’eel being seen as far west as Kandor and Ghealdan. The Atha'an Miere are also searching for something rather than engaging in their usual trade, and Illian has again called the Great Hunt of the Horn. Taken together, there are too many portents to be ignored; the Last Battle is surely coming soon. He still insists that all of the declared Dragons must be false, however.

Jay'kem Carriden enters the room, and reports that Darkfriends who seized Fal'meh had gathered to support the false Dragon with Eyes Sedai support. Niall scoffs at this because Jeffrem Bornhauld had fought those people and Jay'kem had previously named Bornhauld a Darkfriend. Are Darkfriends fighting each other now, then? Carriden is unmoved and dismisses the rumors about Shawn'chin from across the Aryth Ocean. Niall presses Carriden and holds him to account on his failure to carry out his orders to seize Almoth Plain and raise the dead nation of Almoth for the Children. The plan was to hold Almoth and Amadicia, sandwiching Tarabon and forcing the nation to submit to the Children's will.

Niall threatens to give Carriden over to the High Inquisitor for questioning over his failure, but relents and commands him to make sure that the false Dragon is not killed and to kill any Eyes Sedai who oppose the false Dragon. Carriden says supporting a false Dragon is treason and blasphemy, but Niall says it is only what must be done. Niall implies that a big threat like a strong false Dragon will lead many to unite behind a strong hand like the Children of the Light. Niall says that if anything happens to the false Dragon or Niall, Carriden will be dead within a month. When the Inquisitor leaves, Niall contemplates his grand plan to use the false Dragon to strengthen support for the Children until eventually he will unite the forces of the Light behind him to fight and win Tarmon Gai'don. History will tell the tale of how Pedron Niall led the forces of the Light against the Dark One and won.

Ordeith emerges from a secret passage in the wall. Niall is angry that Ordeith came unsummoned and was eavesdropping; Niall had shown him the passage so that he could come secretly when summoned. Niall had taken him in because he had information about Toman Head that Niall did not receive elsewhere. Ordeith looks at a drawing of the "false" Dragon, and tells Niall that it is Rand al'Thor, a Darkfriend from the Two Rivers. He also tells Niall of Rand's friends Matrim Cauthon and Pairin Eyebarra, and that the Two Rivers is a nest of Darkfriends. Niall wonders whether he ought to make plans for the Two Rivers when the snow clears.



Point of view: Jay'kem Carriden.


Carriden strides down the halls of the Fortress with a grimace on his face that makes other men avoid him. He enters his rooms, looking for his servant, Sharbon, but is deeply shaken to see a Myrddraal instead. The Fade reminds him of his real priorities, telling him that he had orders from the Great Lord of the Dark to find and kill Rand al'Thor above all else. Carriden is confused, as he was under the impression that the Great Lord wanted to use Rand al'Thor, not kill al'Thor. The Fade dismisses his questioning and then threatens to kill one of his blood each month until al'Thor is dead. If he runs out of relatives, he will be taken to Shay'ole Ghoul to die a slow and excrutiating death. After the Fade leaves, Sharbon finally enters, and Carriden orders him to fetch him pen and paper for the orders he must write. Carriden is debating which orders he must obey.





Chapter 1. Waiting.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin on his horse Stepper, along with Uno Nomesta, Mahsemma Dagar, Ragan and two other unnamed Shienaran soldiers, are waiting for a woman coming to see Mworane Sedai. Pairin finds himself using his wolf-enhanced senses and tries to stop using them. He almost tries to contact the wolves to find out more about what is in the mountains around them but refuses to. The Shienarans are deferring to Pairin and he isn't sure why they should since he sees himself as just a blacksmith apprentice. Pairin spots the woman first in the distance coming from the west. Mahsemma spots a raven which Pairin kills with an arrow.

The woman comes into view of the waiting party, and everyone see she's one of the Tuatha'an. They ride out to meet her, where Pairin starts subtly questioning her to see if she's the one they are waiting for. The woman, called Leya, gives the name Mworane, confirming she is the one. Pairin asks another question to confirm her identity and is satisfied with the answer.

The men start guiding Leya to the camp of the Dragon Reborn. Pairin begins to make idle conversation with her which quickly becomes slightly heated on the subject of the Way of the Leaf. Pairin ends the conversation and they ride through the wilderness in silence until they reach the camp. The Dragon Banner is flying openly.





Chapter 2. Sai'deen.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


In the camp Leya insists on going straight to Mworane, but she does ask Pairin to feed her horse, Piesa. Pairin sees Min peering at Leya and asks her what she sees. Min has a viewing of Leya and predicts that she will have a violent death. "The Tinker woman is going to die. I saw her own face floating over her shoulder, covered in blood, eyes staring." Min implies that she sees viewings of violence around Pairin, but Pairin stops her before she can reveal more. Pairin worries that Leya's viewing means the camp will be in danger but he rejects contacting the wolves and decides to rely on the scouts. Mworane has warded the camp anyway and it would be invisible to Shadowspawn unless they stumble upon it.

Loial comes over and they tell him about Leya. Min complains about being swept up by the power of tahveeren and Eyes Sedai. Loial reveals that he plans to write a book about the tahveeren. Rand comes out of Mworane's cabin and walks away. They have been arguing. Uno, Mahsemma, Ragan and the other Shienarans are in awe of him. Leya is in Mworane's cabin with LAN and her.

Pairin follows Rand to a fissure in the mountain wall. Rand recites a portion of the Prophecies of the Dragon (quoted above) and notes that there are no Dragons yet. Rand asks Pairin if he thinks Mat is okay and Pairin says yes. He thinks Mat and the others must be in Tar Vawlyn by now. They briefly discuss their duties as tahveeren. Rand explains that he has been arguing with Mworane over whether to stay put or do something about the people fighting and dying for him on Almoth Plain. He understands that she is right in that he cannot join any of the small groups of men who have declared for them, since that would just attract attention from stronger parties like the Whitecloaks and get them all killed. Still, he feels that he has to do something. Rand knows he must face Ba'alzamon again. As he frets, he feels siedeen pulling at him and causes an earthquake without even knowing it. Rand asks Pairin if he has particular dreams, but Pairin has learned to protect his. Pairin goes back to the camp but Rand stays behind to brood some more.





Chapter 3. News from the Plain.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin again gets the urge to communicate with wolves but suppresses it. He returns to the camp and tells Mworane and Min, who are both cross at Rand, that the earthquake was an accident. Loial, Uno and the Shienarans are fixing the damage. Pairin tells Min she should go home, but Min refuses, saying that a thing need not be bad just because it was chosen for her rather than by her. Pairin sees Rand sneaks back into camp. Rand skips dinner so that he doesn't have to come to the campfire and be seen by the Shienarans; he does not wish to lord over them.

Mworane, LAN, Uno and Loial join them. Mworane relates the news from Leya. Almoth Plain is in chaos. Hunters for the Horn of Valere have appeared on the plain, but they won't find the horn since it has already been found. A huge force of Whitecloaks is pushing out the Taraboners and Domani rather than attacking those following Rand. The Whitecloaks seem to be intentionally avoiding the Dragonsworn; they publicly announce that they will bring down the false Dragon but always arrive too late to find large bands of Dragonsworn. Loial suggests that Rand could go to his supporters as he wishes then, but LAN is sure that it is some convoluted Whitecloak plot. Three boys resembling Rand have been murdered, probably by Gray Men.

Mworane feels that Rand's display likely alerted any nearby Fade, so the guards will need to be on high alert tonight. Pairin skips dinner as well and goes to his hut to sleep. He is part of the watch later and will need to be especially alert. After a while he falls asleep and starts dreaming.





Chapter 4. Shadows Sleeping.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin is dreaming that he is in an inn. An injured man, wearing velvet with white lace at the collar, encourages him to give up the axe and go back to being a blacksmith. Pairin replies that he will, but not yet, because he is tahveeren. The man tries to get him to drink something. A murmur keeps appearing in the back of Pairin's mind but he refuses it. In refusing it, he also refuses the drink. The man tells Pairin that his fate is tied with the other two tahveeren; should one fail, all three will.

Then he finds himself standing in front of a mirror. He is wearing armor and a golden helmet shaped like a lion's head. The axe is by his side, now. He feels like he's carried it in hundreds of battles. The most beautiful woman he has ever seen is standing in the room with him, talking about glory. He is affected by her tales of glory and is about to agree with her when the murmuring comes again. He refuses the murmurs and in doing so also refuses the glory. She offers him a drink too but he again refuses. She leaves, but not before saying that she will be in his dreams.

Then Pairin finds himself standing on a bridge leading to endless pathways in many directions. There are many bridges, ramps and stairs in every direction in all three dimensions. Far away he sees a woman hurrying somewhere. Below him on a different bridge, two men are arguing. One is tall and slender with silver in his black hair. The other is not as tall and has short, white hair. The two men converse but not amiably. A third man joins them and the first two men seem to ally against him. Finally all three start shouting at each other and the meeting breaks up in a ball of fire which washes over Pairin. A wolf appears and Pairin shouts, "No!"

Pairin shifts to a place he seems to recognize, full of redstone columns. He sees a crystal sword hanging in the air, and he cannot grab it, there is an invisible barrier. He has had this dream four nights running, but something new happens; a whisper seems to give its name, Callandor. Then there is another whisper, "the twisted ones come", from a wolf.



Unanswered Questions[]


What would have happened if he had drank the wine?
Where was Pairin when he saw the fight between the three men? Was it an untainted version of the Ways?
What is the significance of the axe in Pairin's past lives?
What is the significance of the lion-shaped golden helmet?




Chapter 5. Nightmares Walking.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin awakens to discover the camp under attack by Trollocs and Myrddraal. LAN comes out of his cabin alerting the Shienarans of the assault. Pairin chastises himself for not letting the wolves' warnings of "Twisted Ones" enter into his consciousness fully but quickly grabs his axe and starts to fight. He rushes to save Leya from her predicted fate, killing all Trollocs in his path. Pairin intercepts a Trolloc before it can fall on Leya and he wrestles with it, rolling on the ground. Eventually he kills it after having received a bad gash on his back and bruise on his shoulder. Leya, rather than being grateful for Pairin saving her life, gives him a look that resembles pity. A Myrddraal descends from the roofing of the hut and keeps Pairin frozen in place with its fear-inducing gaze, leisurely walking towards him. Leya attempts to tackle the Myrddraal from behind despite Pairin's protests and is killed with an almost casual backhand blow by the Myrddraal who keeps its gaze on Pairin. The wolves tell Pairin that they are coming and this allows Pairin to free himself from the Myrddraal's induced paralysis. Pairin is consumed with rage, merging his consciousness with that of the wolves, and he kills the Myrddraal with quick blows reminiscent of the wolves' attacks.

Pairin then goes on a rampage, slaughtering the Trollocs heedless of hurt and fatigue until the battle is concluded. The battle is brutal as there are fewer Shienarans able to stand than not. The ground is soaked with the blood of dead Trollocs, wolves, and Shienarans. A Myrddraal attempts to flee but wolves from an entire pack throw themselves at it, sacrificing themselves to kill it. Only one wolf, Morning Mist, survives and she howls to mourn the death of her pack; without realizing it, Pairin does the same. Min asks Pairin if he is okay and all the Shienarans are staring at him. LAN compliments Pairin's fighting and bravery and gives him a salute of respect; the Shienarans echo it. Mahsemma says the wolves fighting for the Lord Dragon is a sign that they should go forth and spread the word of the Dragon but Uno says they will stay until the Lord Dragon tells them to go. He suggests skinning the wolves to provide warmer cover for the injured men; Pairin insists that they bury the dead wolves properly and Uno backs down.

Pairin walks over to Rand who is skulking on the side. Rand vents his frustration, telling Pairin that all he had managed to do during the raid was set a few trees on fire; while everyone else was fighting the Trollocs, Rand was fighting against siedeen to keep it from burning himself up or bringing the entire mountain down upon them. Rand also sensed the Shadowspawn coming but did not realize what the feeling was, because it was so similar to the taint on siedeen. Pairin attempts to reassure Rand that they did fine to no avail. Pairin also has his own regrets for not opening himself to the wolves, who were trying to warn him about the impending attack.

Mworane comes over to Heal Pairin's injuries after having Healed the others. She mentions that she Healed the wolves too, and notes that it was the wolves who tipped the scales and saved them. Rand did not sustain any injuries from the battle but the wound from his fight against Ba'alzamon in Fal'meh has reopened. Mworane Heals the old wound and faints from exhaustion; there is nobody available to Heal her. Min suggests Rand could do it, but LAN says that he does not know enough and could harm her. Rand says bitterly that he cannot be trusted since Lews Therin was a kinslayer, but LAN scolds him; he is a man and a man will do what must be done. Rand takes this to heart and agrees that it is his duty to fight the Dark One, but he does not have to like it.





Chapter 6. The Hunt Begins.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


LAN wakes Pairin and says that Rand is gone. Pairin is still hungry, an effect of being Healed. He craves raw meat as wolves do. Mahsemma thinks they did something to anger the Dragon, and he abandoned them but Pairin reassures him that this was Rand's plan. Pairin goes to Mworane's hut and Min and Loial are also there. Pairin thinks Mahsemma is going crazy, but Mworane has no time to spare for that. Min gives Pairin the note Rand wrote before leaving in the night. Rand's note says that Ba'alzamon is hunting for him again and this time either Ba'alzamon or Rand must die. Rand has left alone because he does not want anyone else dying for him.

Pairin blames Mworane for this because she pushed Rand to declare himself the Dragon; does she really believe him the true Dragon Reborn or is she just using him for her own ends? She does not answer the question directly. Mworane worries about dangers Rand is not aware of. The Seals on the Dark One’s prison are weakening and many of the Forsaken may be loose already. Pairin mutters about Rand's dreams and Mworane makes him tell her about his dreams, the one about Callandor in particular. Apparently Rand is unconsciously broadcasting his dreams so that others have the same dreams. Someone could be manipulating Rand's dreams of Callandor to lure him to take it. The Dragon is prophesied to be the only person who can take Callandor from where it sits in the Heart of the Stone. They know Rand is going to Tear now and must follow him. Mworane sends the Shienarans to Jehannah, capital of Ghealdan, since most are too wounded to participate in the chase. Mworane insists that Min go to Tar Vawlyn to report to the Amyrlin what has happened. Min protests mightily but she is the only one who can deliver the message without others realizing it is from Mworane. Just Mworane, LAN, Loial and Pairin will pursue Rand.

Before they leave, Min takes Pairin aside and tells him of viewings she had of him since his decision to go was made.



an Aielman in a cage
a Tuatha'an with a sword
a falcon and a hawk, perching on his shoulders, both female


She also warns him to run if he encounters the most beautiful woman he has ever seen, but this just confuses him now and later. Pairin starts to think Min is interested in him but then realizes that Min is in love with Rand.





Chapter 7. The Way Out of the Mountains.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


The group rides for days, with winter changing into spring as they descend from the mountains. Pairin knows wolves are nearby but keeps his mind closed to them. LAN rides ahead of the others, leaving signs behind to indicate the path they should follow. Mworane complains that LAN is moving too slowly and makes a snide remark about sending him to Myrelle. Mworane has the Dragon Banner that Rand left behind.

Often Pairin and Loial catch mountain trout in streams for their food. One day Mworane is interested and they show her how they grab the trout with their hands. Pairin does not expect Mworane to succeed but she immediately catches three, the biggest ones Pairin has ever seen. Pairin is upset that Mworane will not take her turn at the chores. Pairin does not want Mworane to run his life, yet he finds himself manipulated into doing every little thing for her despite his wishes. They enter Ghealdan and begin to see cleared land and farms. They finally come upon the village of Jarra.





Chapter 8. Jarra.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


They enter the village of Jarra and it seems as though the people had a feast recently. Pairin thinks he smells something "wrong," very faintly, but doesn't know what it is. They go to the inn and the sweeper outside, Simion, is startled by Loial until he learns that Loial is an Ogier. They dismount and Mworane asks if they had a wedding, and Simion says they had a plague of weddings. Day and night, more than in the last fifty years! Simion then gets stable boys to tend the horses and prompts the party to go inside for beds and meals. Once inside, Simion shows them to some upstairs rooms.

Mworane learns from Simion that Whitecloaks came through yesterday and behaved very oddly. Three of them declared that they were no longer Whitecloaks and rode away, effectively deserting. Their officer could not stop them because there was other trouble; one Whitecloak left to hunt for the Horn of Valere and another departed for Almoth Plain to hunt the Dragon there. Then other Whitecloaks started grabbing at women in the streets and were stopped by the remaining Whitecloaks, almost coming to blows. Another two Whitecloaks declared the entire village Darkfriends and tried to burn it down, but were thankfully also stopped by other Whitecloaks. The innkeeper, Herod, now despises the Whitecloaks because of all this.

After finishing with Mworane, Simion shows Pairin and Loial to their room. Pairin asks Simion if he saw someone matching Rand's description. Apparently Rand came through and played the flute for all the weddings in exchange for food and board. He awoke in the middle of the night rambling about someone being after him and left immediately, heading east. Pairin says that they are following Rand to help him and Simion thinks Mworane means to catch up to Rand and Heal him. Simion recognizes Mworane as Eyes Sedai and asks if she'll help his brother Noam too. Pairin agrees to ask her but makes no promises.

Pairin goes to tell Mworane and LAN that Rand stayed in the inn the night before. She says that was obvious since Rand's tahveeren nature was behind the weddings and the Whitecloak actions. Mworane chastises him for asking so openly as their enemies will know they have been here. LAN seems to suggest to Mworane that he kill Simion to silence him but she says no. Pairin tells her about Simion's brother and they go to the stable. Noam has golden eyes and Simion says that he has been saying he can talk to wolves. Pairin reaches out to Noam and knows that he feels like a wolf. Mworane sets about trying to Heal him and says she cannot. There is nothing in him that remembers being a man. Pairin says he won't get any better and asks Simion to let him go free, as wolves cannot be caged. Simion agrees and also tells him that the Whitecloaks were looking for a man with yellow eyes named Pairin Eyebarra, who they named Darkfriend. Pairin asks if he believes the Whitecloaks, but Simion says that he does not believe a Darkfriend would care about Noam as Pairin did. He believes Mworane healed Pairin of a madness like Noam's before he got too far gone.





Chapter 9. Wolf Dreams.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin lays in bed and thinks of the innkeeper's brother and wonders if a similar fate might lie ahead of him. He goes to Mworane's room. He asks if he will end up like that. She says she knows little of his situation. She saw a fragment of a book from the Age of Legends. Some of the few who run with wolves get swallowed up by them. Dreams can be dangerous for him because wolves live partly in a world of dreams. The wolfspeak method of communication is related to dreams. Pairin wants Mworane's help in not losing himself. She says she will try her best but her struggle against the Shadow will always have to come first. He wants her to shield his dreams. She says it wouldn't help, she cannot aid in dreams that come from within him.

Pairin returns to his room to sleep and dreams of the wolves. He knows it is a dream and tries to wake up, but nothing happens. He hears Hopper telling him to run so he runs through a series of hallways. There is a nobleman there wearing black velvet and the dream seems to kill him. Pairin runs down the hallway and into a room. There is a beautiful woman there, wearing white and silver. She says he cannot be there and that he will ruin things. Then the room become two-dimensional, rotate and disappear, and he's in the hall again. Hopper appears and tells him to leave but Pairin doesn't know how. Hopper attacks him and then he wakes up. His clothes are bloody, but it is not his blood. It is the blood of the man who was killed in the dream. He washes the blood off his face then sits on the floor at the foot of the bed so that he cannot sleep deeply. Eventually he falls into a shallow half sleep.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand sleeps against a tree. A giant black dog comes toward him, and he channels the Power to shoot a beam of light at it. It works this time and the dog is utterly destroyed. He thinks he has to get to Tear to find out if he is really the Dragon. Either he will be able to take Callandor and know that it is true, or he will die and that will be an end to it as well. He knows the dogs are hunting him but he will not be easy prey.



Unanswered Questions[]


Who was the man Pairin saw in the wolf dream?
What killed the man Pairin saw in the wolf dream?
What did Lanfear think Pairin might ruin?
Why did Lanfear's departure look so unusual? Could it be how the closing Gateway appears when looked from  Tel'aran'rhiod?
What was Hopper trying to warn Pairin about?




Chapter 10. Secrets.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne, Nine'eev, Verin, Elayne and Hurin are returning to Tar Vawlyn, bringing Mat with them for Healing. She cannot see the city as they approach it but knows it is there as Dragonmount looms in the distance. It is spring now and they have been traveling since winter. She has been dreaming of Rand running toward something and also away from something. She expects that Anaiya will continue testing her dreams. She burns with the desire to resume her training, to get stronger, so that she will never be a prisoner again. She hates her gray dress, the color of damane clothing, but it was the only riding dress available. She tells her horse Behla that she'll never wear gray again if she can help it.

Nine'eev approaches and tells Igwayne to stop talking to herself, since she should be keeping watch for danger instead. Igwayne reflects that all six in the party have secrets. She worries about Rand and Pairin. Nine'eev knows Igwayne has been having dreams again. Nine'eev says a storm is coming but it is not the weather. Verin and Elayne are with them also. Mat is on a litter and has been unconscious for three days. Hurin says he senses trouble ahead because of the tracks of horsemen he has seen. Nine'eev says they will be in trouble when they get back to the Tower, even though they return with Mat. Mat has the ruby-hilted dagger now but he is close to dying. Verin and Nine'eev have both tried Healing him to no avail. Nine'eev blames her lack of herbs.

Children of the Light led by Dain Bornhauld approach them. Verin tells them to stay calm and let her do all the talking. Bornhauld recognizes Verin as Eyes Sedai and assumes Nine'eev is one too. Verin says Whitecloaks have no authority here and cannot stop them. Bornhauld wants to take them for Questioning. He calls Verin a witch. Elayne jumps in and identifies herself; she tells Bornhauld to move aside or he will have her mother Morgays to deal with. He responds that Morgays no longer supports the White Tower and would thank him to return her to Kaymlin. Igwayne begins to panic over being a prisoner again and fills herself with the Power, erupting the ground in front of the Whitecloaks. Nine'eev starts to channel and does the same and so does Elayne. The Whitecloaks ride away except for Bornhauld who was unhorsed and is standing defiant. Igwayne finally lets go of saidar and listens to Verin. Verin tells them Eyes Sedai don't use the Power as a weapon. Verin says she could have talked them out of bullying them. Igwayne apologizes to Bornhauld but mentions Fal'meh. Bornhauld accuses them of killing his father since he believes it was Eyes Sedai, not Shawn'chin that fought at Fal'meh. The party rides off as Dain Bornhauld tells them to remember his name.





Chapter 11. Tar Vawlyn.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


There is a line of carts to cross the bridge from Darein to the bridge to Tar Vawlyn. Verin talks with the guard at the bridge into Tar Vawlyn even though Igwayne wishes her to hurry as Mat's life is at risk with each passing moment. The Whitecloaks have been camped around Tar Vawlyn's surrounding villages trying to cause trouble, but have been unable to come closer than that. The guard asks Verin regarding the rumors they have received from the west; the rumors say there is a new false Dragon who killed a lot of Whitecloaks and destroyed the city of Fal'meh with support of Eyes Sedai and Artur Hawkwing's armies back from the dead. Igwayne notes that the reputation of Eyes Sedai appears to be diminished even this close to Tar Vawlyn. Verin dismisses the rumors and tells the guard that Fal'meh certainly still stands.

Igwayne feels like she is going home then reflects on what Emmond's Field means to her now. She feels she has outgrown Emond’s field and she will only return to visit. Igwayne notices they are not being noticed, even carrying Mat along on a litter. Verin says they have to be more careful than ever when they reach the Tower grounds. Verin tells Igwayne, Elayne and Nine'eev that they are not to talk at all once they arrive and the girls all agree.

Hurin departs to inform his king and lord about what happened at Fal'meh. Verin leads them through the gate and to the Tower stable yard. Sheriam meets them and Verin says to get Mat somewhere away from others since he is very ill and could harm others. Verin says the girls should be taken to their own rooms and that she needs to see the Amyrlin immediately. Sheriam lectures the girls on being runaways when they have so much potential. If they speak they are to be taken to the kitchen to scrub pots. Theodrin is more sympathetic and takes Nine'eev while Faolain escorts Igwayne and another Accepted escorts Elayne.





Chapter 12. The Amyrlin Seat.






Point of view: Sewan Sawnchay.


The Amyrlin, Sewan Sawnchay, paces in her study, waiting for Verin to arrive and pondering contingencies she has prepared for various events that might happen. Lee’ahnna, Keeper of the Chronicles, comes into the room to announce Verin's arrival. To Lee’ahnna's surprise, Sewan dismisses her to speak to Verin alone. Verin tells Sewan that Rand has proclaimed himself the Dragon Reborn. Sewan is pleased yet extremely anxious; she must assist the Dragon with Mworane and Verin yet maintain the utmost secrecy. There are no more false Dragons, Sewan says. There was a vision in the sky over the battlefields where both were winning and both were unhorsed and knocked unconscious. Mazrim Taim was captured and the other false Dragon was executed. Those events must have happened when Rand proclaimed himself and the Pattern decided it had no more need of false Dragons.

Verin takes the Horn of Valere out of a leather sack. Sewan is surprised to see it here. It was supposed to be with Rand but it was Mat that blew the Horn. Sewan asks whether Mworane has changed the plan again but she is not to blame. Mat is sick and needs to be Healed and there is silent consideration on whether to Heal him in time, since he is now linked to the Horn and can be the only one to summon the Heroes of the Horn while he lives. The Amyrlin says they can hide the Horn for now. Verin says they need to deal with the Shawn'chin who use the Power as a weapon, confirming reports and rumors that Sewan has received. Sewan decides that since the Shawn'chin were chased away from Fal'meh, there are more important issues to deal with. They continue and Sewan tells Verin to give details on what Nine'eev, Igwayne and Elayne have been doing.





Chapter 13. Punishments.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne lays on her bed, worrying over what will happen to her. She talks to Elayne through the hole in the wall. Elayne had not expected this reception. Igwayne agrees, as she had thought they might be heroes for discovering the Black Ajah and that Liandrin is one of them. They also returned with the Horn of Valere. But Verin had said that they cannot speak of Liandrin or the Horn to anyone but the Amyrlin. Both Verin and Faolain had mentioned Stilling as a possible punishment; the two agree that they would fight or run away before they let that happen. Their doors slam open and Accepted come to take them to the Amyrlin.



Igwayne and Elyane meet up with Nine'eev who is also on her way to see the Amyrlin. Faolain tries to criticize Igwayne in front of Lee’ahnna in the antechamber but only earns herself a punishment. Lee’ahnna escorts them in to see the Amyrlin who makes them wait before eventually addressing them. Sewan calls them runaways but Nine'eev immediately disagrees and says that they were only following Liandrin's orders to go with her. Sewan says not to speak her name here. Elayne says Liandrin is Black Ajah but Sewan already knows. Liandrin and twelve others stole several ter'angreal from the Tower and tried to steal angreal and sa'angreal. They also killed twenty-one people including three Eyes Sedai to hide their theft and escape. Even though they were tricked into leaving without permission, they are to be sent to Sheriam for a sound switching and they will work in the kitchens until further notice. The punishments are to be announced publicly which is also part of the punishment.

However, Igwayne and Elayne will be raised to Accepted because their abilities have greatly increased. Elayne's mother visited the Tower and was furious to learn that Elayne had disappeared. She refused to take Elaida, normally her advisor, back with her to Kaymlin and demanded that Elayne be returned as soon as possible. Elayne's brothers talked themselves into staying when Morgays wanted to leave with them. Morgays left a letter with Sheriam for Elayne; Elayne replies that she wishes to stay and become Eyes Sedai. Sewan agrees and is determined to see her raised to the shawl. Sewan has Lee’ahnna take Elayne to the kitchens so she can talk to Igwayne and Nine'eev in private.





Chapter 14. The Bite of the Thorns.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Sewan ponders on who she can trust. Nine'eev says she doesn't think they can trust Mworane. Sewan questions whether Nine'eev has enough experience in the world to really know who to trust. She does believe they can trust Mworane, and thinks they know more than they think they do. Sewan says she wishes she could raise Nine'eev to the shawl. After beating around the bush, Sewan says they are all she has to work with. They are the only ones she can be absolutely sure are not Black Ajah since Liandrin had tried to harm them. Since no one will believe the Amyrlin is collaborating with those she humiliated publicly with these punishments, (and she can trust them) they are to be her hounds. Igwayne and Nine'eev are to hunt the Black Ajah for the Amyrlin. Sewan does not assign the task to Elayne even though she trusts her also, since Sewan must be able to tell Morgays that she did not bring any more danger to her.

Igwayne is astounded and says they would surely be over matched; she also has too many tasks already between her punishments, studies and talking to Anaiya about her dreams. But Sewan insists and tells them that they will have to do their investigating between their other duties, and within their limited power as Accepted. Nine'eev points out that since any of the sisters teaching them could be a Darkfriend, it would be safer to try to find them now than wait for their plots to unfold. As a concession, the Amyrlin gives them papers that have written on them: "what the bearer does is done by my authority. Obey, and keep silent, at my command. Signed, the Amyrlin Seat." They can use them in situations of utmost need, but they will have to be careful they are not trying to use those orders with Darkfriends. Nine'eev is amused at the idea of ordering LAN with the orders.

Sewan says Verin will give them all the information they need on Liandrin and the other Black Ajah sisters. Igwayne and Nine'eev are dismissed with reminders that they have to visit Sheriam and work in the kitchen.





Chapter 15. The Gray Man.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


As they leave the Ahmerlin’s study, they discuss the Black Ajah and how they will try to accomplish their task to find them. Nine'eev points out they are still in danger whether the Black Ajah suspects them or not. They don't understand why, but the Black Ajah has already tried to eliminate them and will probably try again. Nine'eev checks Elayne's room, but she is not there. Going back to their rooms, Igwayne pauses to ask Nine'eev a question when a crossbow flies past, right where they would have been had Igwayne not stopped. Nine'eev becomes angry enough to channel and uses Air to hold the person who shot it. By the time they reach him, the man is already dead with a dagger in his chest. Igwayne notices there is no crossbow with the man,  so someone else must be nearby.

Sheriam comes up the stairs and sees them. She kneels beside the corpse to examine it. Sheriam says he is one of the Soulless, a Gray Man. Gray Men give up their souls to serve the Dark One, Sheriam explains; not one has dared to enter Tar Vawlyn since the Trolloc Wars. She says they are not to speak of this to anyone except herself, and the Amyrlin (but only if the Amyrlin brings up the subject first). She sends them on their way. Nine'eev questions why Sheriam happened to be there and receives a scolding. Sheriam suggests they leave the novice area for Nine'eev's room while she cleans up the mess. Before they leave, Igwayne remembers the crossbow bolt and hurries back to retrieve it before Sheriam can see it, but it is gone. While Igwayne is gone, Nine'eev questions Sheriam some more and gets into more trouble. As they leave, Nine'eev points out that Sheriam did not wonder who might have stabbed the Gray Man. 





Chapter 16. Hunters Three.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Elayne is waiting in Nine'eev's room with Gawyn and Galaad when Igwayne and Nine'eev arrive. Igwayne thinks again how handsome Galaad is. They have been worried over the absence of Igwayne, Elayne, and maybe even Nine'eev. The men ask them where they went but receive no answer. They say that Morgays ordered them to bring Elayne home after Elayne finishes training. They offer their help whenever the women want it. Nine'eev finally forces them to leave by threatening to report them to their arms master.

Gawyn is besotted with Igwayne, Elayne says, but defers to Galaad since Galaad saved his life once. Galaad will never do anything against the rules, which Elayne views as being horrid. Nine'eev tells Elayne what the Amyrlin told them, starting with the Black Ajah and their task to hunt them. She also tells her about the Gray Man that almost killed her and Igwayne. Nine'eev says the Amyrlin may let Mat die. Eyes Sedai may view all of them as tools, and sometimes tools break. Nine'eev decides that she may need to try Healing Mat herself and brings out her herbs. They discuss linking to increase the power of the Healing. Just as they are about to leave to try, the door bangs open and Elaida walks in.





Chapter 17. The Red Sister.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Elaida comes into the room and acts very arrogantly to Igwayne, Nine'eev and Elayne. She asks if they know of the Black Ajah, and the girls confirm that they do. She asks where they have been so she can protect them from being linked to Liandrin and the other sisters that fled the tower. The girls decline to disclose where they have been, with Nine'eev claiming that the Amyrlin had told them not to disclose it. Elaida shifts the conversation to ask about Rand. As Nine'eev ponders how to answer, the door opens again and Sheriam walks in. Sheriam wants all three of them to go with her and faces Elaida down until she leaves. Nine'eev asks about the Gray Man so Sheriam realizes they have told Elayne despite orders to tell no one. She repeats that they are not to speak of it except to the Amyrlin. She says the Healing of someone brought to the Tower is always done in the presence of those who brought him; they are to follow her to Mat's Healing.





Chapter 18. Healing.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne notices that Sheriam is leading them in the lower levels of the tower where angreal are kept and the room where novices and Accepted are tested. There are ten Eyes Sedai there for the Healing,  which include the Amyrlin, Lee’ahnna, Verin, Serafelle, Sheriam, Alanna, Anaiya and Brendas. Using Vora's sa'angreal and combining powers, the Amyrlin leads the circle as they attempt to Heal Mat, who lies on a table in the middle of the room. Igwayne realizes how foolish it was for them to think they could heal Mat by themselves when ten Eyes Sedai and this powerful sa'angreal are needed. Mat appears to be fighting against the breaking of bond to the Ruby-hilted dagger. Igwayne is worried that they are killing him, but Nine'eev says they have no choice but to trust the Eyes Sedai. Mat shouts words of the Old Tongue, and Igwayne does not know what he says, except that it is a battle cry of Manetheren. 

Anaiya puts the dagger into a thick heavy box, and Mat collapses. The Amyrlin exhales and says it is over. Verin and Serafelle begin discussing the words he spoke in the Old Tongue. Brendas is asked to get Mat back to his rooms. Nine'eev asks if he is going to live, but the Amyrlin says only time will tell. She confirms that his link to the dagger is severed. Igwayne asks if they can stay with him in case he dies, but she is told no. The Amyrlin gives them a meaningful look while saying they 'have chores to do' (meaning their hunt for the Black Ajah). The girls are led off to the kitchens to begin their punishment chores.





Chapter 19. Awakening.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat awakens and cannot tell if the thoughts of battles and Mworane are dreams. Everything is bits and fragments. He thinks of a battle where he is giving commands and knows that he must win or die. Mat does not know if this is real but he is known as a gambler. Mat remembers Mworane and knows something of Shadar Logoth, and a dagger. Something about going to Tar Vawlyn to be Healed. Mat finds the tray with enough food to feed four men and realizes how hungry he is. He first has to find out where he is though. It must be Tar Vawlyn since that is the only place he could be Healed. They used the Power on him, but he can't worry about that now, it's done and it's better than dying.

Mat tries to work out how he can come out ahead during a stay in Tar Vawlyn. He wonders what Rand is up to. As he ponders on his situation and thinks about his friends, he finds that he has eaten all of the food that was laid out. He decides that a bit of gambling to fill his purse followed by a quick exit is his best course of action. He would like to talk Igwayne and Nine'eev out of becoming Eyes Sedai but doubts he will be able to. Suddenly he remembers that he blew the Horn of Valere and that Eyes Sedai are not likely to let him scamper off. There is a knock at the door and it begins to open.





Chapter 20. Visitations.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Seleen visits Mat in his room. He swears he's seen her before, but he can't place it. He dismisses it as surely he would remember such a beautiful woman. Mat asks if she is Eyes Sedai or even a novice and she laughs. She tells him that he could be great and that the Eyes Sedai will try to use him. Mat says the Eyes Sedai cannot be interested in him, a simple country man just trying to see a bit of the world before returning to his father's farm. Mat asks if she is a Darkfriend but she says she is no follower of Ba'alzamon; she follows no one, although she could stand beside one. Much of what she tells Mat is cryptic and he doesn't understand her meaning. She tells him that he needs to trust her; she reveals that his father Abell and Rand's father Tam came to the city looking for him - will the Eyes Sedai tell him that? Seleen begins to use the Power on Mat, but suddenly hears something and stops. She tells him that many people are after Mat and want to kill him; she alone can guarantee him safety, but he must do as she says. Then she glides out of the room.

Mat decides to inventory his resources for departing as soon as possible. He finds his clothes and dice cup, but not very many coins. Sewan and Lee’ahnna come in and tell him the guards have his description and are not to allow him to leave the island. Mat asks why the Eyes Sedai want to hold him but Sewan says they are not sure he will not need more Healing; he will also need to eat huge amounts of food for days yet. Mat brings up his father and eventually Sewan admits that his father did come to Tar Vawlyn but that was a while ago and she doesn't mention that Tam came also.

Sewan sends Lee’ahnna out of the room to bring Mat more food. Then she warns Mat that he should be careful with what he says, even around people like Lee’ahnna. Sewan asks him about the Horn of Valere and Mat finally admits he remembers blowing the horn. She tells him he is now linked to the Horn and the only one that can summon the Heroes as long as he lives. Mat realizes that the Amyrlin could have let him die so that someone else could blow the Horn for her. He realizes that he will need to be at the Last Battle to blow the Horn for the cause of the Light. She warns him that he must not let anyone know about his link to the Horn; everyone wants the Horn and especially forces of the Shadow. Anyone wanting to harness the power of the Horn will want to kill him. Tar Vawlyn is the safest place for him to be.

The Amyrlin leaves and Mat thinks about everything Sewan and Seleen said to him. Both of them want to use him. He feels the need to get away from the Amyrlin, Eyes Sedai in general, Seleen, and avoid Darkfriends. He just needs to come up with a way to do all of that.



Unanswered Questions[]


Where has Mat seen Seleen before?




Chapter 21. A World of Dreams.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne is summoned to Verin's study while doing chores in the kitchen. On her way she sees a flash of white that might have been a novice or Accepted. Verin's front room is cluttered with maps, sky charts, books, scrolls and even an owl to take care of mice. Verin also has a collection of bones and skulls, including one of a Trolloc. Verin reads from a very old manuscript page written by Rosel of Essam that links Ba'alzamon to Ishamael. Verin provides Igwayne with all of the information about Liandrin and the other Black Ajah Eyes Sedai including information on the ter'angreal that were stolen. Igwayne ponders the possibility of Verin being Black Ajah herself but dismisses it; she has known Verin for a while now and thinks well of her.

Verin mentions Anaiya's tests on Igwayne's dreams which are inconclusive so far and explains that the last recorded Dreamer in the Tower was Corianin Nedeal. From what Verin read in the records though, Corianin barely deserved the label. Verin begins a lecture to Igwayne on the World of Dreams. There are many possible worlds, some of which can be reached by the Portal Stones, but they are all linked by the World of Dreams, Tel'aran'rhiod. Although there are countless different worlds, there is only one Creator and one Dark One; if the Dark One is freed in one, he is free in all. Verin explains that a Dreamer can enter Tel'aran'rhiod. Igwayne may find out eventually whether she can do that, but Verin notes that time is of the essence because of the urgency of finding the Black Ajah. Any tool that may be of use should be harnessed if possible.

Verin thinks Anaiya brings girls along too slowly and she brings out a ter'angreal to give to Igwayne. It is the twisted stone ring that Corianin Nedeal kept in her possession. Corianin wrote that it would let anyone, with or without Talent, to enter the World of Dreams, as long as the user sleeps with it touching their skin. Verin warns that the World of Dreams is dangerous as what happens there is real; she shows Igwayne a scar from a wound that she sustained there which could not be fully Healed. Igwayne promises to be careful and considers whether she is better off not touching the ter'angreal at all. Verin reminds Igwayne that novices or Accepted are not supposed to have ter'angreal in their possession so she must keep it hidden.



Point of view: Verin Mathwin.


After Igwayne's departure, Verin gathers Corianin's notes which she decided not to pass on to Igwayne. As far as she knows, no other living Eyes Sedai knows about the dream ter'angreal. Igwayne is not ready to see the notes yet, but perhaps later.





Chapter 22. The Price of the Ring.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Sheriam meets Igwayne as she is returning from Verin's quarters. She is to be tested for Accepted. Elayne has already finished her test. Igwayne protests that it is late and she is tired, but Sheriam says that it has been ordered by the Amyrlin and cannot be changed. The test is performed by the novice going through each of three arches in the silver arches ter'angreal. The novice is presented with fears from her past, present and future which she needs to overcome in order to prove her dedication to becoming Eyes Sedai. Sheriam says that novices have three chances to take the test and tells Igwayne that she could take her first refusal, but the Amyrlin would not be pleased. Elaida does not think Igwayne should be tested but Sheriam points out that Elaida did not feel the same reluctance when it was Elayne to be tested.

Sheriam warns Igwayne of the dangers of the test and tells her to be steadfast. Women have entered the arches without coming out. Igwayne worries about leaving the papers she received from Verin and the twisted stone ring where one of the Eyes Sedai might find them. But she has already agreed to take the test and it is too late. Alanna expresses concern that there is resonance coming from the ter'angreal, but they decide to proceed with the testing. The Eyes Sedai say the ceremonial words and Sheriam warns her that the way back will come but once; she must be steadfast.

In the first ring, Igwayne sees her husband Rand and her daughter, Joiya. Igwayne is still training as an apprentice Wisdom under Nine'eev. Rand says there is war with people called Shawkin or something like that. The Two Rivers doesn't get much news. Rand begins to get a headache which Igwayne has noticed usually means something strange will happen in the area like sudden storms. Just as she is getting ready to try to heal Rand's headache, the silver arch appears and she goes through reluctantly even as Rand calls out for her.

Just like all the other novices who took the test, Igwayne asks Sheriam whether it was real but nobody knows. The women who did not come out of the arch may have believed it real and remained.

The second time, she sees the ruins of the Royal Palace of Andor. A Myrddraal walks down the street toward her and gives orders to Trollocs and Darkfriends. They are searching for someone. Igwayne goes into the palace, walking through the rubble. She finds Rand in the rubble, pinned under a column. She does not have the skill to shift all of the rubble safely. Rand says that he could shift it but he would no longer be able to hold his madness at bay. He asks her to save him by killing him with a dagger but she cannot. He is worried that the Myrddraal will find him and turn him to the Shadow. The silver arch appears again and Igwayne goes through it even as Rand yells for her to help him.

Igwayne asks Sheriam if someone can be turned to the Shadow by force. Sheriam says it is customary not to speak of what happens in the arches. Igwayne persists and is eventually told that channelers can be turned to the Shadow using thirteen Dreadlords and thirteen Myrddraal. Igwayne remembers that exactly thirteen Eyes Sedai are in Liandrin's group of Black Ajah.

After going through the last arch Igwayne finds herself the Amyrlin. Her Keeper is Beldeine from the Green Ajah, which means Igwayne was Green before being raised. Igwayne's thoughts are in turmoil from things she remembers, from things she doesn't remember and from things that she remembers that seem to be wrong. The words from Sheriam, that the way back will come but once and that she must be steadfast, cannot be fully remembered. Rand is brought to her in chains and she is told by Elaida, her main rival, to sentence him to be gentled. When she refuses she is knocked unconscious by Beldeine.

She awakens to find herself surrounded by thirteen Myrddraal and thirteen of the Black Ajah. She channels her way free and runs through the Tower back to her study. She finds Beldeine there who apologizes for her betrayal and explains that the Black Ajah took her during the night and stilled her. They promised to make her whole again with the power of the Dark One if she cooperated. Beldeine tells her that Rand is being held at the Traitors' Court and Igwayne rushes to help him. Beldeine questions what she can do but Igwayne says that she has never held the Oath Rod. She finds Rand surrounded by Eyes Sedai led by Elaida wearing the seven-striped stole. She is about to start an attack to free him when the silver arch appears.

Suddenly she remembers the words from Sheriam again. She hears voices from outside the ter'angreal, from the real Eyes Sedai outside in the testing chamber. The Eyes Sedai are in a furor and say they cannot hold the ter'angreal much longer, but Sewan yells at them to hold on or she will have their hides. Igwayne jumps through the arch.



Unanswered Questions[]


Why didn't Sheriam warn Igwayne not to channel while inside the ter'angreal?




Chapter 23. Sealed.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne steps out of the third arch, angry at the repeated need for her to abandon Rand in the ter'angreal. She looks up and sees the Amyrlin and the other Eyes Sedai; she realizes not all is as it should be. Two of the Eyes Sedai near the ter'angreal are sweating. Sheriam immediately delves her and is surprised to find that Igwayne is unharmed. Sewan completes the ceremony and announces that Igwayne is now an Accepted of the White Tower; she is no longer of Emmond's Field. She is now sealed to the Tower. Sewan welcomes her and address her as Daughter rather than child. Sewan tells Sheriam to make sure that Igwayne is all right and to investigate what happened before going to speak with the other Eyes Sedai.

Igwayne puts on an Accepted's dress and waits for Elaida to hand her back her belongings. The twisted stone ring ter'angreal is still there and the papers about the Black Ajah; she cannot tell if anyone has looked at the papers. Elaida is still displeased with Igwayne and says she is a wilder at heart and will never have a proper place in the White Tower. Elaida then turns and leaves the chamber.

Igwayne asks Sheriam what happened but Sheriam does not know. Alanna comes over and admits that she should have stopped the test when she noticed the resonance. Later in the test it came back stronger than ever and seemed to want to shut off the flow of saidar to the ter'angreal; Igwayne would have been lost had they lost that flow. It also seemed that the ter'angreal almost melted. Alanna volunteers to share in Igwayne's punishments for failing to halt the testing which Sheriam dismisses as ridiculous. Alanna recalls a similar incident years ago when two ter'angreal related to each other were used in the same room. The ter'angreal melted together and gave all the sisters in the room terrible headaches lasting for a week. This causes Igwayne to realize the resonance came from the twisted stone ring interfering with the silver arches.  Because Igwayne had apparently chosen the Green Ajah in her viewed future, she questions Alanna about what it means to be Green. Alanna is incredibly pleased and says that the Green Ajah stands ready to do battle at Tarmon Gai'don. The Amyrlin allows her a visit to Sheriam for punishment but will not allow her to do chores in the kitchen.

Igwayne does not want to be alone after the trials of her test and so heads to Nine'eev's room. Elayne is there also and has been crying since due to her own testing. Nine'eev's eyes are also damp. Seeing Elayne's emotion causes Igwayne to let hers out also. Nine'eev comforts them both and vows that one day they will make the Eyes Sedai pay for their treatment of them.





Chapter 24. Scouting and Discoveries.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat wakes and immediately begins thinking about how to leave Tar Vawlyn. He is still gaunt but beginning to look better already. After eating a tray of food brought to him by servants, Mat exits the main Tower to begin scouting. He chats with soldiers and guards on the Tower grounds and finds out there are Whitecloaks on both sides of the river. One of them is a bridge guard and recognizes Mat from the descriptions the Eyes Sedai gave him. Mat wanted to test how thoroughly his description had been circulated - too thoroughly as it turns out. He encounters Else Grinwell and asks if she remembers him. She says he is not supposed to be out and seems harsher than he remembers.

He continues on to the training grounds, watching Warders and trainees practice. He finds pebbles and sits down to watch them, juggling the pebbles. He realizes he is watching Gawyn and Galaad and remembers the stories Elayne told of them on the trip from Fal'meh. He offers a wager to spar both of them at the same time. They feel it would be unfair to Mat, but Hammar, their teacher, says he will cover the bet if they won't. After Mat insists again, they agree to the wager. Mat says it's time to toss the dice, except he accidentally says it in Old Tongue, which Hammar recognizes.

The fight begins and Galaad rushes at him. Mat smoothly lands blows on both men a couple times before quickly knocking Gawyn out of the fight. Galaad recovers and Mat knows he needs to win quickly before he weakens too much. Mat attacks furiously with Galaad parrying all his blows until Mat expends his last bit of energy to land four quick hits. Mat seems to be in a battle trance and instinctually almost lands a killing blow on Galaad's throat before he stops himself. Galaad can no longer stand and Hammar declares Mat the winner. He recounts the story of Jearom, the greatest swordsman ever whose only loss was to a farmer with a quarterstaff. The Eyes Sedai and Accepted all rush to look at Galaad's injuries.

Mat leans on his staff heavily and is close to falling over with exhaustion. Gawyn comes over, having been Healed, and gives him the two marks that were wagered. Mat apologizes for injuring Galaad. Hammar covers Galaad's wager since he is being tended to by the Eyes Sedai. Hammar asks Mat where he is from and Mat says Manetheren; after pausing for a beat, he corrects himself and says the Two Rivers. Mat takes his leave quickly before he can be asked any more awkward questions. He keeps the quarterstaff and uses it as a walking stick to drag himself back to his room.





Chapter 25. Questions.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne, Nine'eev and Elayne are conducting their investigation into the Black Ajah in Nine'eev's room. Elayne is reading the notes they received from Verin while Nine'eev paces in the room. Igwayne had a restless night sleeping with many dreams and nightmares. She is reluctant to speak to Anaiya about them now because she feels any Eyes Sedai could be Black Ajah. She did learn from Anaiya months before that a Dreamer's dreams about tahveeren are basically always significant. She is trying to sort out if some of the dreams have meaning.



Shawn'chin collaring a long line of women who wore Great Serpent Rings and forcing them to attack the White Tower
Whitecloaks binding her fathers hands
Rand reaching for a crystal sword while a net descends on him
Rand kneeling while many little dragons settle on to his skin
Rand walking in to a hole in a mountain
Rand confronting the Shawn'chin
Pairin with a female falcon on his shoulder
Pairin with a female hawk trying to leash him
Pairin with a beard leading a huge pack of wolves
Mat placing his left eye on a balance scale
Mat hanging by his neck from a tree limb
Mat and Shawn'chin
Mat speaking the Old Tongue


Nine'eev is frustrated that there is nothing useful in Verin's notes. Nine'eev tells Elayne to stop wasting her time, but Elayne just points out that they are all Accepted now and Nine'eev cannot order her. Elayne says they have no pattern in their birthdays, names, Ajahs or nationalities. The sisters are evenly distributed with two in each Ajah and Liandrin as the only Red. This means there is a pattern in no pattern and that there must be more Black Ajah still in the tower. There must be an extended number of Black Ajah in order for them to be able to choose such an even distribution. Nine'eev agrees and compliments Elayne on her deduction.

They also have the list of the stolen ter'angreal. Many have to do with dreaming and were last studied by Corianin Nedeal.



a clear crystal rod, one foot long and one inch in diameter, use unknown.
an alabaster figurine of an unclothed woman one hand tall, use unknown.
an iron disc three inches in diameter with spirals engraved on both sides, use unknown.
a wooden carving of a hedgehog the size of a man's thumb that makes one go to sleep.
a fluted black rod of stone a pace long that produces balefire.
a carved cluster of six spotted dice that warps chance.


They continue to wonder if the Eyes Sedai they are in contact with might be Black Ajah. Naturally, they think it is unlikely that the Eyes Sedai they like are Darkfriends. They discuss the probability that Verin genuinely missed the obvious pattern that so many of the ter'angreal were last studied by Corianin. They agree that Alanna's behavior at the end of Igwayne's testing was truly peculiar. They decide they will detail their suspicions to the Amyrlin but will let her draw the conclusions. Nine'eev wants to use the twisted stone ring that night but Igwayne takes the ring, saying that she is the Dreamer and will be the one to use it.

Else Grinwell comes into their room without knocking and probably heard some of the things they were discussing. She seemed to be looking at the dream ter'angreal. She has a message from the Amyrlin that the belongings of Liandrin and her companions are in a storeroom. They are startled by Else's apparent knowledge of their task and decide it is necessary to talk to her about it. Igwayne runs after Else and sees flashes of her white dress as she follows. But then she runs into a beautiful woman in silver and white who she assumes is an Eyes Sedai she does not recognize. This woman apparently knows about the murders in the Tower too. Igwayne asks whether she has seen Else and the woman notes Else ran away quite quickly and is unlikely to be found now. She then tells Igwayne to leave her be and Igwayne starts going back to her room before she realizes what is happening. When she stops herself and turns back, the hallway is empty. She checks several more hallways but Else and the woman are nowhere to be found.





Chapter 26. Behind a Lock.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne begins opening doors in the hall where Else and the woman in white disappeared. Elayne and Nine'eev catch up to her and Elayne is surprised that Else could outrun Igwayne. Nine'eev says they will have to find Else later and warn her to be quiet about Liandrin and the storeroom. Igwayne says she is not looking for Else but someone tall and striking with black eyes and hair.

Nine'eev says they need to go to the storeroom before Else can gossip to anyone about it and leads them to the storerooms below the library. It is very dark in the depths of the Tower and Elayne and Igwayne channel the Power for balls of light. They arrive at the described room but the door is chained closed with a lock. Nine'eev works to make herself angry so she can channel and creates a big prybar with the Power to break the chain. But Igwayne has already broken the chain with Earth and Nine'eev almost falls over when the chain falls apart easily.

They enter the storeroom and see thirteen bags, all tied and labeled. Igwayne intuits how to tie off her ball of light weave and hangs it on the wall. Igwayne does not know how she did it. After a moment, Elayne copies it and in doing so Igwayne sees her do it and learns how it was done. This circular learning spooks Igwayne a bit. They begin going through the belongings which are mostly old clothes. In one bag is a torn map of Tear. Another contains a book on the Tairen Court. More items scattered about include ship schedules to Tear, another book about Tear, sketches of Tairen buildings and lists of Inns in the city. Everyone left something about Tear behind. Nine'eev says it is bait or a trap, or they meant it to be obvious. Tonight Igwayne will explore the World of Dreams to see if more can be learned.





Chapter 27. Tel'aran'rhoid.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne, Elayne and Nine'eev are gathered in Igwayne's room after their chores. While they were in the kitchens Verin, Alanna, Elaida, Sheriam and Anaiya all stop in on errands of their own but may also have been checking on one or more of the three. Igwayne makes her preparations to enter the Tel'aran'rhiod. She ties a leather strip through the twisted stone ring so that when worn about the neck, the ring will touch her skin. She lays down and Nine'eev begins to hum. Igwayne thinks of home, of Rand, of Pairin, and she falls asleep.

She is in a field of flowers, wearing a dress of her favorite color. She tries to channel and finds that she can. She takes a step and is suddenly standing outside an inn. The door opens and sees Pairin sleeping in a chair chained but he is holding the chains as if to chain himself. A wolf is on the floor next to him. Igwayne is alarmed at the wolf and yells at Pairin to wake up. Pairin wakes up and yells at Hopper to stop, then the inn's door closes and there is total darkness.

Igwayne then finds herself outside and Rand is there by a campfire. Rand accuses her of being Shadowspawn masquerading as Igwayne and implies that others, including someone he only refers to as "her," have come to him in his dreams and tried to kill him. Igwayne tries to talk to Rand and angrily channels Air to hold Rand still, but Rand breaks the flows. Rand channels a sword and attacks her, so she flees. She is suddenly back in the field of flowers. Then she grabs the twisted stone ring around her neck and talks to it. She shuts her eyes and tells the ring to take her where she needs to be to find out what the Black Ajah wants.

Igwayne opens her eyes and finds she is in Tear, in the Heart of the Stone with Callandor. An old woman named Silvie is there, who speaks to Igwayne as if she is an old servant of Igwayne's family. Silvie says the Heart of the Stone is a good place to be for answers. Silvie calls Ishamael a fool which startles Igwayne, but Silvie plays it off as mocking the forces of the Shadow. Silvie explains that Callandor is the sword that can only be touched by the Dragon Reborn. Igwayne cautiously inspects the wards set around the sword with the Power and realizes powerful weaves of both saidar and siedeen were used. Silvie grumbles that someone is coming to stare at the sword again and warns Igwayne to leave but she doesn't know how. Igwayne tries talking to the ring again but the ring does not respond to commands to take her to places. Silvie puts her arms around Igwayne and ushers Igwayne away from Callandor. Then suddenly Silvie grabs the ring, telling Igwayne that she will tuck her in bed. Igwayne wakes up painfully but finds no wounds on her.

Igwayne decides that next time they will set a time for her to be woken up. Igwayne tells Elayne and Nine'eev of her journey. They decide that Callandor in Tear is where the trap for them is at and they must go to spring it and hopefully not get caught. Since the Amyrlin has not come to speak to them, Nine'eev decides that they have the right to decide themselves. Elayne realizes she must get a letter to her mother, otherwise there will be more trouble between Andor and Tar Vawlyn. They will wait one more day to give a final opportunity for the Amyrlin to check in with them. Nine'eev suddenly remembers Mat and decides he would be the perfect messenger for Elayne's letter.





Chapter 28. A Way Out.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat is having a snack when Elayne, Nine'eev and Igwayne come to visit and ask how he is. The women are smiling too much which makes Mat suspicious of their visit. Nine'eev admits they have come to ask him to do a favor for them. Elayne gives Mat her best pretty little girl look and says she wants him to carry a letter for her, to her mother. Mat asks what he will get out of it. Elayne then tries to make it a favor he should do for the Daughter-Heir, but that doesn't work either. Igwayne says he doesn't do things for other people if there's nothing in it for him. Nine'eev starts berating him and points out that they took care of him on the way to Tar Vawlyn and he owes them.

Mat decides to stop teasing them and admits that he cannot leave the city. If they can fix that, he'll be happy to carry the letter. They confer near the window then give him one of their letters from the Amyrlin to get him past the guards to leave the city. Mat asks them for money to help with the cost of the trip, but they have none to spare. He says he will manage and promises a few more times that he will see the letter delivered. With the issues about the trip settled, they talk about home. Mat then thanks them sincerely and promises to help them should they need it. They leave and Mat does a small dance of glee.





Chapter 29. A Trap to Spring.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev, Elayne and Igwayne are all working on roasts in the kitchen. Nine'eev is bitter about being ordered around by Laras, the chief cook and unofficial Mistress of the Kitchens. She puts up with being ordered by Eyes Sedai because she needs to learn about channeling to get back at Mworane, but having to submit to Laras as well is too much. Elayne is not happy either and considers bringing down the might of Andor on Laras. The Amyrlin enters the kitchens and makes as if she is here to inspect the work. She stares at the workers as though they are not working hard enough. Even Laras is affected and starts working too. The Amyrlin pauses near the three but looks away from them. She accuses Elayne of using foul language to send her out of the kitchens. Igwayne does not realize the ploy and jumps to Elayne's defense, so Sewan is forced to send her away too. Sewan wanted to speak with Igwayne and Nine'eev but ends up with Nine'eev only.

Sewan talks with Nine'eev and says she was going to have them brought to her study in the afternoon to discuss their studies. She cannot check on them every day because it would be suspicious for their association to be too close. She could not wait though because another Gray Man, a female one, was found dead in Sheriam's bed. Nine'eev mentions that Sheriam could have looked at the Black Ajah notes during Igwayne's Accepted testing but Elaida did as well.

Nine'eev gives information about what they found in the storeroom. Nine'eev does not tell her of Igwayne's trip to Tel'aran'rhiod or the twisted stone ring ter'angreal as she does not entirely trust Sewan or really any other Eyes Sedai. Sewan says she did not send a message about the storeroom. Else was sent home ten days ago and the belongings of the Black Ajah were actually searched and then burned, so what was in the storeroom was fake. Nine'eev is chilled by the thought that anyone she speaks to could be Liandrin or another Black Ajah sister since impersonations are apparently possible.

This clearly makes Tear a trap but they will have to proceed anyway. Sewan says she will let it be rumored that they have been sent to work at a farm as punishment to serve as an alibi. She will leave gold in their rooms for their trip. Nine'eev admits that Elayne will be leaving also. Sewan could not ask Elayne directly since she wouldn't be able to lie to Elayne's mother about what she knows. Nine'eev asks about Callandor and the Amyrlin says it is a sa’angreal and only two others are more powerful. The Black Ajah cannot be allowed to have it. Nine'eev retorts that the Black Ajah cannot touch it, which is true, but Sewan mentions that they could be after the cache of ter'angreal in the Stone of Tear which rivals that in the Tower.

Sewan looks at the frenzy she has caused in the kitchen and decides she'll have to make it up to Laras. Nine'eev thinks Laras deserves it but Sewan tells her that Laras actually went to Sheriam to demand to know when the harsh punishment for the three would end. Laras had been given instructions to give them the hardest tasks and would not continue it so long that it would break their spirits. When Laras returns, Sewan compliments her and declares that she will make Mistress of the Kitchens her official title.

Elayne and Igwayne return and complain about their punishment from Laras. Elayne apparently had her mouth washed with soap for her alleged foul language. They beg Nine'eev to give them good news and Nine'eev tells them that they will be leaving after kitchen cleanup is done. Nine'eev hopes that they are not walking into a trap that they cannot get out of.





Chapter 30. The First Toss.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


After the girls leave, Mat immediately sets about planning his escape from Tar Vawlyn. He eats as much food as possible and asks for extra to hoard for his trip. He asks for less perishable food such as bread, cheese, and fruit and hides it all in the wardrobe. Anaiya visits him at midday and says he is well after Delving him, but seems aware he is asking for more food than he needs. He mentions to her that he plans to visit an inn in the city as entertainment. Anaiya says he is free to do that but won't be able to leave the city. It is early evening by the time he is actually able to leave. He bundles up the food and takes everything with him, including the quarterstaff which he uses as a walking stick. It is obvious to everyone that he is planning a journey but nobody stops him because they are confident that he will be stopped by the guards. He decides it is best to make a show of it so that the Eyes Sedai will expect him to fail spectacularly and in so doing wait longer before they begin a search for him.

He plans to board a ship heading toward Tear but will get off at Aringill before going overland to Kaymlin to deliver Elayne's letter to Morgays. But first he needs some money to finance the trip and heads to an inn for gambling. Mat remembers always coming out ahead at dice but tonight he is winning every toss no matter the game, however many dice or whose dice they were. Someone says that he has the Dark One's own luck, which is a common phrase, but Mat reacts violently and pushes the fellow against the wall. Mat says fervently that he is no Darkfriend and begins to wonder whether the ruby-hilted dagger did something to him that caused this outrageous luck. Preoccupied with this thought, he leaves the inn quickly and does not even collect his winnings from the last wager. He pauses in the street and thinks about it and remembers that his luck did seem to markedly improve after he took the dagger from Shadar Logoth. Maybe the Eyes Sedai did it by accident when Healing him. His checks his pockets which are overflowing with gold and silver and he has two full purses besides.

A fat man comes out from a nearby tavern and seems startled to see Mat. The man mumbles to himself repeatedly and appears drunk as he walks away. Mat, suddenly feeling hungry and running out of food, decides it is past time to find a ship to take him downriver. As Mat makes his way toward the harbor he hears footsteps following behind, which he assumes are footpads. He ducks into a shadowed corner and readies his staff to attack the following men should they come closer, but they stop only a few paces away from him. The two men are holding knives and stop to talk to each other. One of them says that he has seen nothing and wishes to be done with this. Both turn and leave which makes Mat feel that his luck helped again.

He decides to try moving over the rooftops to avoid the men in the street. After traveling a ways he decides it is safe enough to get back down. He jumps down to a walkway bridge four stories above the pavement. He suddenly finds a man on the bridge with a dagger going for his throat. He stumbles and ends up half hanging over the bridge trying frantically to stop the dagger from touching him. Mat exclaims "time to toss the dice," which confuses the other man. Using the brief moment of confusion, Mat throws himself off the walkway, pulling the assassin with him. Mat lands on top and finds the assassin dead with the dagger in his heart. His luck helps him yet again. The man seemed to be very ordinary looking, hardly noticeable. He decides he needs to rest a bit before finding a ship, so he heads for a nearby inn, The Woman of Tanchico.





Chapter 31. The Woman of Tanchico.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Thom is performing atop a table as Mat walks in to the inn. Thom looks sad which surprises Mat. Mat sits down and orders a drink for himself and one for Thom. Thom finishes his story and stumbles toward Mat's table. He sits with Mat and complains that the patrons want his stories in Common rather than Plain Chant or High Chant. Mat has never seen Thom drunk like this and he always used to put his harp away right after playing. At least he is still complaining about his audience. Two maids come over, Mada and Saal, and the women try to get Thom to rest and sleep. Thom has already emptied his tankard. Thom talks about the beautiful women he's had in his life, Morgays and Dena. He is clearly depressed over the death of Dena and blames himself. Mat is hungry and orders several chickens. Thom wants more drink, but the women refuse and insist he eat some chicken instead.

Mat and Thom talk a bit about Rand and Thom mentions his regret that Mworane is an Eyes Sedai. Mat asks what Thom is doing in Tar Vawlyn, as he had heard that Thom was doing well for himself in Kai'rienne. Mention of Kai'rienne makes Thom think of Dena again and he regrets the trouble that can result from killing a man. Mat tries to get Thom to come out of his stupor while devouring his three chickens. Eventually he convinces Thom to go to Kaymlin with him. Having renewed purpose, Thom gets up to gather his belongings and is no longer stumbling. Mat wonders if he has time to order another chicken but Thom returns quickly. Saal tells Mat she is very happy to see Thom's uplifted spirits and even gives him a silver mark in gratitude.

As they leave the inn Mat notices that the corpse of the man he killed is gone, but the guards are not present to investigate. Mat mutters about footpads and Thom tells him there are no footpads in Tar Vawlyn, as the Eyes Sedai make it very unpleasant to be a thief. Mat wonders who was following him earlier. Mat decides they will catch the first ship heading downriver, even if it is sinking.





Chapter 32. The First Ship.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat and Thom arrive at Southharbor just as a ship, the Gray Gull, is unfastening its mooring lines. Mat told Thom he intended to catch the first ship and that is the ship. A dockmaster attempts to stop Mat due to the Eyes Sedai orders, but Mat has the letter from the Amyrlin given to him by Elayne. Thom is confused as to why Mat would be refused so. The dockmaster is even more confused by the apparent contradiction presented by the letter but accepts it and tries to get the ship to wait. The ship is underway so they have to jump to land on the ship's deck. The ship's captain, Huan Mallia, is angry and calls on two of his crew to toss them back into the harbor. Mat uses gold and the letter to secure passage to Aringill. Thom is enraged by the price demanded by the captain and starts to negotiate passage in exchange for his services. Mat wants a cabin and the captain's meals though. Mallia says they can have his cabin and meals for five gold crowns, each believing no one would pay that and then is astounded when Mat calmly starts counting gold coins into his hand. Mallia asks if Mat is a lord which Mat denies.

As they get their things into the cabin, they listen to the captain who is trying to pump them for information. The captain is convinced that Mat is an Andoran lord who is carrying out some mission for Queen Morgays involving Tar Vawlyn. Mallia is Tairen and speaks highly of the High Lords of Tear and especially the High Lord Samon. He is contemptuous of Mayene and Illian, as most Tairen are. He expresses contempt for Tar Vawlyn too, because Samon says the Eyes Sedai must all be killed and the White Tower destroyed. Then he realizes what he had just said and backtracks, not wanting to offend Mat. Mat goes with it and mocks him, which causes Mallia to leave the cabin.

Mat tells Thom about winning the gold at dice using others' dice, the letter from the Amyrlin, the letter from Elayne to Morgays, and Thom doesn't believe a word of it. Thom goes to sleep but Mat lies awake pondering the events of the last couple of days. Mat realizes Nine'eev, Igwayne and Elayne must be involved in some plot from the Amyrlin if they had that letter to give him. He hears feet outside the cabin door and fights two men that come into the cabin, killing them with the quarterstaff. Mat takes one of the dead men's cloak to disguise himself and goes up onto the deck.

Mat walks up to a man at the tiller and claims to the man that their target is dead. The man is happy that "this boy" is dead and Mat recognizes the voice from the Tar Vawlyn alley. Then the man realizes Mat is not one of his party but it is too late as Mat strikes with his staff, cracking him in the head. Thom throws a knife to kill another man that Mat didn't see. Thom points to a dropped lantern and notes that they were lucky it did not set the ship on fire. Two more men are left in a boat tied to the stern. They shriek, recognizing Mat, and dive into the river to swim away. The captain comes on deck, furious. Thom says they saved the ship from river brigands so perhaps he should reconsider their price for passage. Mallia looks at the dead men and considers that maybe Mat is an assassin, having killed so many.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is playing Rose of the Morning on his flute. This was song he played at weddings, oh so many weddings. People had told him that he is tahveeren and maybe it is true. Maybe he had caused the weddings. People had told him that he is the Dragon Reborn too, but that doesn't make it true. He wonders about the dreams he has. In them people he knows come and try to kill him, including his father and mother and Min. He knows it was not actually Min; Min would never hurt him. Seleen also came to him in the dreams, telling him that he must take Callandor. Are the dreams real? He remembers a dream where Igwayne, Nine'eev and Elayne are being pushed into cages and wonders why he feels more concern for Elayne than the other two. He continues playing the flute through the night instead of sleeping, so that he cannot dream.





Chapter 33. Within the Weave.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin is riding on the Lugard Road and sees bits of pavement. He sees a bit of a dog's footprint on one of the stones but nothing on the dirt. Along with Loial, Mworane and LAN they are pushing hard trying to catch up to Rand. Loial doesn't even have time to read as they are riding anymore. They are approaching Remen on the Manetherendrelle. He thinks of his dreams, like the one with Hopper and Igwayne. He intentionally makes himself sleep in bad positions so that he does not sleep deeply, to minimize dreams.

Pairin recalls the various villages and towns they traveled through, seeing different events that happened in Rand’s wake. The town Sidon burned completely to the ground when an uncontrollable fire started due to a dropped lantern in a barn. Past Sidon there were four towns unscathed but then they found Rand's horse dead by the side of the road, apparently torn apart by wolves or wild dogs. The village of Willar afterwards was celebrating the rejuvenation of the spring on the village common. The village had been on the verge of abandonment due to lack of water. Past three more untouched villages, in Samaha, all the wells in the town had suddenly gone dry; in Tallan, everyone erupted into arguments and three murders were committed before the people calmed down. Finally they passed Fyall where there had been an exceptionally poor harvest but the Mayor found a buried sack of gold coins minted by Manetheren, saving them from starvation. Pairin is disturbed by the bad things happening in Rand's wake, because Rand cannot be evil. So perhaps the Pattern can sometimes be evil? Mworane says that the Creator is good and the Dark One is evil, but the Pattern itself is neither good nor evil.

They enter Remen and Pairin smells something vile, not a Twisted One or Neverborn though. Then he berates himself for using the wolf terms for Trolloc and Myrddraal. But he can't figure out what it was he smelled. In the town square an Aielman is hanging in a cage while children throw stones at him. They enter Wayland's Forge, the inn where they will stay.  Gainor Furlan is the innkeeper and talks about recent events in town. There are hunters for the Horn of Valere and they are the ones who captured the Aielman. Pairin remembers that Min said an Aielman in a cage will be a turning point in his life.

Pairin asks about the Aielman and Furlan says that Lord Orban and Lord Gann with ten of their retainers fought twenty Aielmen, taking one prisoner. Orban comes over, rudely asking for Mother Leich to tend to Gann's wounds. LAN questions Orban on what happened and Orban confirms that twelve of them fought twenty Eye’eel, losing six of their men. Orban claims to have killed all the Eye’eel save the one prisoner and the ones who ran. Orban mentions that Whitecloaks are out searching for the Eye’eel who fled, which alarms Pairin since the Whitecloaks may be looking for him. Pairin feels a set of eyes on him and looks around. He notices a young woman, about his age, with shoulder-length black hair and a nose that is almost too large. She turns away just as he looks at her.





Chapter 34. A Different Dance.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin wonders if the girl that was looking at him knows what yellow eyes mean. He can't figure out why she would be staring at him so. Gainor Furlan shows Pairin, Loial, Mworane, and LAN to their rooms. On the way he says someone is proclaiming the Dragon in Ghealdan. From what he says, LAN and Pairin deduce that it is Mahsemma. Mworane declares that it will not be a good time for Mahsemma when she sees him next and angrily slams closed the door to her room. The inn even has an Ogier bed for Loial to use and it is made of sung wood.

Pairin sits for a long time pondering the puzzle of the girl and comes to no conclusions other than regretting not stopping the children from throwing stones at the Eye’eel. So he goes to see Mworane to see if she can help. He knocks once and then enters. He is embarrassed to find her undressed, having just stepped out of the bath. She covers up with a robe and Pairin asks if Rand caused the events with the Hunters and the Eye’eel. She does not think so, but LAN is still out investigating. LAN is trying to find out whether Rand crossed the river to continue to Tear overland or took a ship to Illian before continuing to Tear; they themselves must take one of those two paths. Pairin can't believe that Rand is still maintaining his pace ahead of them without a horse, but Mworane says that Rand is descended from great runners and walkers, i.e. the Eye’eel. Pairin asks about the girl and suggests that perhaps she is interested in him because she is a Darkfriend, but Mworane just chuckles and says that she might just be attracted to him.

Pairin decides to go outside and feels like someone is watching him. Pairin decides to lower the cage holding the Eye’eel and let him out. The Eye’eel, Gaul, tells Pairin that he is looking for He Who Comes With the Dawn. Pairin knows Gaul is talking about Rand and says that he is on his way to Tear. Gaul realizes the truth of Pairin's words, saying that when the Stone of Tear falls, the Eye’eel will leave the Three-fold Land. A dozen or so Children of the Light see that the Eye’eel is out, and Gaul runs at them, veiled. Pairin joins the "dance," and together they kill or disable all of them. Pairin regrets the savagery of the axe. Gaul explains that there was only one other Eye’eel with him, not twenty total as Lord Orban had claimed. Gaul wishes Pairin well and leaves for Tear. As Pairin starts to head back to the inn, he sees the girl again that had been staring at him. She runs away before he can talk to her. LAN comes up and asks if the dead Whitecloaks are his work and if anyone saw him. LAN tells Pairin to get the Ogier and the horses and to meet at the docks.





Chapter 35. The Falcon.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin follows LAN into the inn and tells Loial that they are leaving while LAN informs Mworane. The stableman asks a lot of questions of Pairin when he asks for their horses. LAN comes in and flips the stableman a gold coin which stops all the questions. Loial is reminded of the earlier times when they fled their enemies in the night and chased after Darkfriends; he admits that he is beginning to like adventuring. They ride the horses out of the town to the docks. LAN finds the captain of the Snow Goose, Jaim Adarra, and arranges passage for them including the horses. The boat is about to cast off when the black-haired girl jumps onto the deck, saying she will go where Pairin is going.

The girl starts talking to him and mentions that she has been to Illian before. She says that the townsfolk at Remen thought that Gaul had chewed through the chain and nobody knows what he did. Despite his boasting, Orban is indeed an impressive fighter, as she had seen him take on four men and win. Pairin thinks it is odd for a girl to speak of fighting and killing. Pairin asks why she is following him. She says she was staring at Pairin because he is the only one she couldn't figure out. She knows Mworane is Eyes Sedai which makes LAN her Warder. An Ogier is just an Ogier. She cannot figure out why he would be among such a group. Not only was his presence an oddity, he acted oddly - freeing the Eye’eel and slaughtering Whitecloaks like it was nothing. That was all very strange and as a Hunter of the Horn she feels it is a promising trail for her to follow. Pairin tries to give her some red herrings as to where the Horn may be found to shake her off but she will not be dissuaded.

Pairin finally asks her name and she replies Mandarb, which he laughs at. She angrily tells him that Mandarb means blade but he tells her that LAN's horse is named Mandarb. She tells him that her real name is Zarine Bashere but she hates the name Zarine. Pairin turns to go below when Zarine announces that she will call herself Faile, which means falcon. Pairin almost stumbles down the ladder after recalling Min's viewing.





Chapter 36. Daughter of the Night.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra Setting: River Manetherendrelle aboard the Snow Goose, Tel'aran'rhiod.


While thinking about Zarine, Pairin walks around on the Snow Goose searching for his cabin. When he falls asleep, he finds himself greeted by Hopper in Tel'aran'rhiod. Hopper guides him through a thick fog to a meeting of Darkfriends summoned there by Ba'alzamon. The Darkfriends are extremely startled at being summoned so in a dream. Ba'alzamon is annoyed that some of the tasks he gave the Darkfriends are not yet completed. As punishment he kills the man who let Mat escape from Tar Vawlyn, remarking that the man will never wake from his dream. Other Darkfriends identify themselves as men from Illian and Tear.

After he dismisses the other Darkfriends, Ba'alzamon is confronted by Lanfear. Lanfear expresses her annoyance at Ba'alzamon using the World of Dreams which she claims as her domain. Ba'alzamon questions her loyalty, but Lanfear says that she has long served the Great Lord of the Dark. They belittle each other's plans and accomplishments. The fog returns and Pairin and Hopper are alone again. Pairin realizes Lanfear is the same woman who appeared in his dream and urged him to glory.

Pairin questions Hopper about his motives for showing this to him. Hopper only says that it was what he must see and warns him again to be wary before flying off. Pairin then accidentally stumbles upon Rand in Tel'aran'rhiod while he is killing shadow spawn. Rand, still believing the Dark One is trying to win him over in his dreams, attacks Pairin with lightning. This makes Pairin wake up with some minor injuries on his chest. For the first time in many days he finally falls into a deep sleep.

When Pairin wakes in the morning he goes to Mworane and tells her about the dream. Pairin shows her the burn on his chest as proof. She tells him to be careful, as many in the Red Ajah would think it is the work of male channeling and try to gentle him. He would not be harmed by an attempted gentling, but he would be treated roughly by the Red Ajah and perhaps even killed before they realize their mistake. Pairin takes the dream as confirmation that Lanfear has escaped Shay'ole Ghoul, if not the other Forsaken as well. Pairin questions Mworane what she will do about this news but she is sticking to their plan of getting to Tear and will say no more. Pairin asks her to Heal his wound from Rand's lightning but she declines, saying it is not serious and it will help him remember to be careful. Pairin also asks her what the name Zarine might mean and Mworane replies that it is a Saldaean name suitable for a great beauty who lies around on cushions surrounded by suitors.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor Setting: Hillside in Murandy.


Meanwhile Rand wakes up and realizes he has to be more careful in his dreams, realizing it was really Pairin and not some illusion. He is confronted by a female merchant and her guards asking to share his camping spot. He assumes they are Darkfriends and quickly kills them with a heron sword made of fire. He leaves their bodies in a kneeling fashion, quipping that people should kneel to him if he is indeed the Dragon Reborn. He notices an eleventh man when he only saw ten before; the additional man has no armor and wielded only a dagger. He takes one of their horses and rides off to Tear.



Notes[]


The icon was switched to face the other direction (as in previous chapters) in later editions.




Chapter 37. Fires in Kai'rienne.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne is aboard the Blue Crane heading downriver on the Erinin towards Tear. Igwayne has not seen a living person in any of the villages they passed, most of which were burned. The sailors bow to her, seeing her ring. Captain Chin Ellisor is honored to have three Eyes Sedai on his ship. Igwayne recalls her dreams of Pairin, Rand, and Mat, and also one of Min.  



Rand holding a sword that blazed like the sun
Rand threatened in a dozen ways, none of them the least bit real
Pairin with a wolf, a falcon, and a hawk, with the falcon and hawk fighting
Pairin running from someone deadly
Pairin stepping over the edge of a towering cliff
An Eye’eel related to Pairin
Min springing a trap but not getting caught
Mat with spinning dice around him
Mat being followed by a man who wasn't there
Mat riding desperately toward something unseen in the distance
Mat with a woman who seemed to be tossing fireworks, an Illuminator
Men and women breaking out of a cage and putting on crowns
A woman playing with puppets with strings to greater puppets
Kings dying, queens weeping, battles raging
Whitecloaks ravaging the Two Rivers
Shawn'chin
Her mother and father


Elayne comes over and feels pained over the devastation wrought by the Cairhienin civil war. Elayne speaks of recent history between Andor and Kai'rienne; after the Eye’eel War, the wars between Andor and Kai'rienne stopped and Andor exported much grain to Kai'rienne. Igwayne says they can't worry about Kai'rienne's people, they can't do anything about it and have to figure out how to get into the Stone of Tear. Igwayne suddenly realizes that one of her dreams means that a Gray Man is after Mat.

The ship suddenly stops, throwing them to the deck. Nine'eev comes up from below and surveys the status of the ship. Nine'eev says they hit a sunken ship and are stuck. The captain says a different ship should be there soon to help get them moving but it might take longer. Nine'eev says that they can just walk to Jurene, the next village on the river, and get on a different ship there. Chin Ellisor tries to talk them out of walking on the Kai'rienne side, but it is much shorter to the next town there. Igwayne and Nine'eev start bickering as they disembark because Nine'eev is used to issuing orders as the Village Wisdom but Igwayne will stand it no longer now that they are both Accepted. Elayne tries to play peacemaker with no success. They are walking along the riverside when a figure in brown and gray steps out from the bushes in front of them.





Chapter 38. Maidens of the Spear.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


After having been startled by the sudden appearance of a figure, Igwayne al'Veer simultaneously embraces saidar and screams. She notes that Elayne Trakand has also done so. After wondering if help will come from the Blue Crane, she weaves Air and Fire so she can channel lightning. Nine'eev al'Meera merely stands there with her arms crossed. The subject of their surprise is a woman about Igwayne's age, though taller.

Igwayne calms down, but she does not let go of saidar, though she notes that Elayne has and muses that the Daughter-Heir holds foolish notions about what is safe. Few men would think the woman in front of her is not dangerous.

Igwayne feels an odd affinity for the woman and thinks that she looks like Rand's cousin. She recognizes the woman as Eye’eel and wonders what Eye’eel are doing out here. Eye’eel are deadly, even the Maidens of the Spear, but she strangely feels no fear.

The woman introduces herself as Aviendha of the Nine Valleys sept of the Taardad Eye’eel. She and her companions are Maidens of the Spear. She asks them if they are Eyes Sedai. Igwayne hears the plural in the woman's first statement and wonders where the others are with a bit of unease but concludes that with saidar flowing through her, they are no threat.

Nine'eev replies that they are women of the White Tower and asks what they want. Aviendha smiles and says that they talk like Eye’eel Wise Ones and then informs them that they have a companion close by who is gravely hurt and asks for their aid. Igwayne marvels that they talk like they are asking for some small favor rather than something involving life or death.

Nine'eev agrees to try to Heal their companion but makes no promises. Aviendha acknowledges this and offers to take them to her. Immediately, and very close by, two additional Eye’eel stand, surprising Igwayne. One of them lowers a black veil which startles Igwayne because she remembers Elayne telling her that Eye’eel only cover their faces when they are ready to kill. These two new Eye’eel women are armed and look ready to fight.

Elayne introduces herself on the way, and the second Eye’eel woman introduces herself as Bain of the Black Rock sept of the Shaarad Eye’eel. The third Eye’eel woman introduces herself as Chiad of the Stones River sept of the Goshen Eye’eel. Both Eye’eel women glance at Igwayne, who takes the hint and introduces herself, belatedly adding her family name and home town.

Bain asks if they are first-sisters and, comically Igwayne answers yes at the same time that Elayne answers no. Elayne then explains the meaning of first-sisters to Igwayne. She then explains to the Eye’eel that she doesn't know a lot about Eye’eel ways and asks their pardon. She then also says that she sometimes thinks of Igwayne as a first-sister, but they are not blood kin.

Chiad asks them why they don't become first-sisters. Igwayne asks how that can happen and in the process shows her ignorance, especially when she says that Maidens don't care for men. Inside her head she compares them to the Red Ajah. Both Eye’eel women are surprised by that assertion and explains that being wed to the spear means being bound to no man, but Maidens do sometimes given up the spear for a man or a child. They also explain that a woman who goes to Roy'deonne to become a Wise One cannot remain a Maiden either. It seems to Igwayne that Bain and Chiad are communicating something secret between the two of them in the way that they say this last.

They also explain that their particular clans have blood feud with each other, so they decided that even though Maidens do not lift the spear against one another, they needed to go further. They risked their lives to go to each others' clans to become first-sisters. Then Bain says coyly that she wouldn't say they don't like men. Then she asks if she has made things clear and Igwayne replies in the affirmative and silently changes her perception of them to women from the Green Ajah.

The Maidens encourage them to go to their Wise Ones and "say the words" but then are puzzled about how they can say the words if they are already Wise Ones. Both Igwayne and Elayne are obviously thinking about what it might be like to share Rand, but Igwayne silently thinks that Rand can't be shared by either of them.

Elayne explains that she and Igwayne already guard each others' backs, and Chiad shows puzzlement and ask why there is need. The three are freed from answering by their arrival at their destination.

They meet Jolien of the Salt Flat sept of the Nakai Eye’eel and Dailin, of Aviendha's sept and clan. It is Dailin who is injured. Aviendha explains that Cairhienin soldiers, which she calls "tree-killers" attacked, and in the encounter Dailin took a sword wound to her torso.

Nine'eev looks at the wounds and asks if the woman has been moved. Aviendha answers yes, because Dailin wanted to die near water. Nine'eev chastises them for risking her, then pulls out herbs and a cup, telling Chiad to fill it with water. Bain accompanies Chiad to the river—both women act as if they are afraid of the river.

Aviendha gently reproves Nine'eev for her scolding. Nine'eev sniffs and starts mixing herbs vigorously, since she needs to be angry in order to channel. The Eye’eel admit surprise that an Eyes Sedai uses herbs to Heal, and Nine'eev snaps out "I use what I use!" This causes Chiad to observe that Nine'eev does sound like a Wise One.

Still worried about the Eye’eel becoming violent, Igwayne decides to get them talking. She asks them about their uneasiness around the river, saying that they could swim in it if they wanted. Aviendha admits that she once saw a Shienaran swim. Igwayne asks Jolien about the Stones River, and Jolien reasons out that "swimming" means getting into water. She also explains that the Stones River is dry and that she has never seen running water she could not step across.

After a reproachful look from Elayne, Igwayne realizes that she has put the Eye’eel even more ill at ease. She decides that if they will try anything she will hold them with Air, though she doesn't know if she can hold four at once. She embraces saidar, though Elayne does not and Igwayne wonders again at that. Aviendha abruptly states that they would never harm Eyes Sedai. She continues that she would never use her spear against another woman.

Elayne replies "so long as we do not attack you, you will not try to harm us." Again, while she is trying to calm down Igwayne, not the Eye’eel, nevertheless all four Eye’eel women are shocked. 

Nine'eev feeds Dailin her concoction, ordering her to drink. Dailin complies with difficulty.

Aviendha continues the conversation by revealing that even if the Eyes Sedai offered them violence, she would not retaliate with violence. She says that once the Eye’eel served the Eyes Sedai and they failed in that service; she does not know how or why, however.

Elayne promises that they are not going to destroy them. Aviendha continues by saying that the old stories say they must not fight the Eyes Sedai even if they come with balefire and lightning. They may dance with the lightning, but they would never harm an Eyes Sedai.

Meanwhile, in her ministrations to Dailin, Nine'eev continues to try to make herself angry.

Still seeking distraction Igwayne asks Aviendha what balefire is. Aviendha tells her that she does not know, except that it is fearsome. Igwayne offers that perhaps the White Tower has forgotten much as well. She muses that she knew of it in "that dream" in Tel'aran'rhiod.

Nine'eev snaps out "no right to tear bodies so!" Aviendha asks if she is angry and looks worried. Elayne says that it is all right, and Igwayne says that it is better than all right. Nine'eev is finally angry enough to channel, and Igwayne and Elayne lean forward to watch what is happening. Dailin starts up with a scream. Almost immediately Nine'eev lowers her down; Dailin shuts her eyes and pants.

Igwayne thinks that she saw some of what Nine'eev did, and it was like weaving four carpets at once while blindfolded.

Nine'eev cleans the Eye’eel woman's belly with the bloody bandages; no wound and no scar can be seen where the woman had once been hurt. Nine'eev stands, tosses the old bandages away, and orders the other Eye’eel women to finish cleaning her, and feed her as she will be hungry.





Chapter 39. Threads in the Pattern.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


The Maidens examine Dailin after the Healing and are surprised at its effectiveness. Aviendha says she owes a debt to Nine'eev because Dailin is her cousin. Aviendha had heard that a few Eye’eel Wise Ones could do this but assumed it was just boasting. Nine'eev asks whether there is a ship at Jurene and Aviendha replies that she saw one there yesterday. Elayne asks why the Eye’eel are in the Westlands and the Maidens say that they are searching for He Who Comes With the Dawn. Nine'eev says they should be on their way. Aviendha says that they are looking for omens and signs as part of their search and ask the three where they are going; Nine'eev tells them that they are on their way to Tear to hunt Darkfriends. 

They depart and Elayne explains that the Eye’eel do not think of the Eye’eel War as a war; they were only looking for King Laman Dawmodred to punish him for cutting down Avendoraldera. Elayne quotes from the Prophecies of the Dragon which state that the Dragon shall be born on the slopes of Dragonmount of a maiden wedded to no man; Rand certainly looks like Eye’eel. Igwayne agrees that the Eye’eel could be looking for Rand. Elayne, still trying to play peacemaker, compliments Nine'eev on the Healing and her handling of the Eye’eel. This prompts Igwayne to compliment Nine'eev as well, but then Nine'eev spoils it by treating Igwayne as a child again. They continue walking awhile in silence. Suddenly Elayne cries out as Igwayne sees men with slings step out in front of them, but it is too late. A rock hits Igwayne's head and she passes out. 

Igwayne opens her eyes slowly and sees that she is tied to a moving horse. She sees Nine'eev and Elayne similarly bound and her captors notice that she is awake and she is knocked unconscious again. When she wakes up again she finds herself in a hut with a dirt floor, but she is unbound. She gets up and peeks through cracks near the locked door to see dirty men discussing their situation. There are a dozen men waiting for someone to come "buy" the Eyes Sedai that they captured. Igwayne realizes their rings have been taken.

Igwayne wakes Nine'eev and Nine'eev quickly realizes that they were given sleepwell root. The men think it will keep them down for a long time when in reality it is a light herb that only induces some drowsiness to help sleep. The main thing the herb did was clear the pain from being hit in the head. Nine'eev examines Elayne and realizes she is hurt badly and will die without Healing. Unfortunately Nine'eev cannot muster her normal method of Healing without her herbs. But she works herself into a temper and manages to heal Elayne through the Eyes Sedai method of Healing, using Spirit, Water and Air rather than all Five Powers. The Healing energy radiates around Nine'eev and heals Igwayne's headache too. Elayne wakes and feels hungry as is normal for this method of Healing; Nine'eev also feels fatigued. Igwayne explains to Elayne what happened and the three prepare to strike at their captors.

They look through the cracks again and find that three Myrddraal are now in the other room, looking at their stolen rings. One tells the men that the captured women are the ones they seek after seeing Golden Crane signet ring that Nine'eev had with her. Igwayne channels Earth to break the chain the lock is holding and they position themselves to attack. The Myrddraal sense channeling and question whether the women are actually sleeping. Just as the chain falls to the floor, seven Eye’eel storm into the room and kill all the humans in a quick melee. The Myrddraal, wounded, defend themselves by positioning back to back. The five remaining Eye’eel pace around them, taunting them as the opposing sides assess each other. Nine'eev opens the door and the three rush out. Igwayne throws Fire at the Myrddraal as Elayne crushes them together with Air. But then Nine'eev sends a bar of white light at the Myrddraal and the Fades vanish, leaving nothing behind. Nine'eev is astonished and does not know what she did; Igwayne intuits that it was balefire, but she did not see the weave.

The Eye’eel, impressed by the power of the channeling, immediately unveil themselves to express their peaceful intentions. The sounds of fighting outside die down as well. Nine'eev checks the two fallen Eye’eel and is crestfallen to see that one of them is Dailin whom she Healed earlier. Having taken wounds from the Myrddraal's blades, they are dead. Aviendha says she followed the girls from a hundred paces behind to see what they would do. By the time she realized that they had been captured, it was too late to help by herself. So she went and gathered the others before returning to rescue them. Rhuarc, Aviendha's clan chief, recognizes Nine'eev's ring as the ring of Malkieri kings. Rhuarc had not wanted to come on this expedition to find He Who Comes With the Dawn, but the Wise Ones had dreams that said he must go. Igwayne asks if the Wise Ones know how to interpret their dreams and Rhuarc confirms that some can, but can provide no details.

Nine'eev says that they will take the men's horses and continue south. The Eye’eel escort the girls to Jurene, keeping pace on foot with the horses, then they depart. The girls enter the village hoping to find a ship, where they come across fifty Queen's Guards from Andor. Elayne keeps her face hidden under her hood to avoid recognition. Some of the guards ask the three to stay with them and Nine'eev slaps a guard who oversteps. They see the Darter and purchase passage. The captain admits that his ship will not be traveling quickly, but it is unlikely they will find another ship. They find out that the Blue Crane is still hung up on the sunken ship.





Chapter 40. A Hero in the Night.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat and Thom are on the Gray Gull approaching Aringill. Mat had carefully removed the seal on Elayne's letter without breaking it and even though there was nothing special about it, he is convinced it is the reason people are hunting him. Mat actually made a profit on the ship by gambling with the captain. They had passed the Blue Crane but Captain Mallia refused to help the ship. Mat is no longer hungry from his Healing. The people of the town are starving because of all the refugees from Kai'rienne, and the Andoran squadman says people are slaughtering horses for food. Mat sees a mother of three crying children on the docks looking for her husband and gives her some money.

Mat and Thom check different inns in town with Thom offering to perform for a place in the stable since every inn is full to overflowing. They cannot find a place to stay until Mat finds an innkeeper with dice cups. He pays a princely sum for a place for them to sleep in the stable, then offers to gamble for the two horses the innkeeper owns. Mat wins of course so they have a place to stay and horses for the journey to Kaymlin.

After their meal they were relaxing when a woman, Aludra, drags a cart into the stable. She quickly lights a lantern and starts eating some hard bread. Mat wants to give her some of their cheese but there is none left. Shortly afterwards Tammuz and three others from the Illuminator’s Guild arrive with the intention of murdering her for selling fireworks outside the purview of the guild. Mat jumps to the rescue, and Thom tosses Mat his quarterstaff. Tammuz and his men are knocked out after a quick fight. Mat and Thom learn that Aludra previously ran the Chapter House at Kai'rienne but was cast out from the guild. She says Tammuz ruined a performance for the King of Kai'rienne and the Guild blamed her as the head of the Chapter House.

She says she should pay them for helping her, giving Mat a big bundle of fireworks. Aludra gives Mat a lengthy explanation along with many warnings on how to use the fireworks, although Mat does not take her warnings all that seriously. The ones with the longer fuses have a bigger punch. She warns him not to open up the fireworks under any circumstance or they may explode immediately. Mat remembers Aludra's hard bread and offers her money for food, but she declines, saying she will be able to take care of herself. Thom asks her how she lit her lantern in the dark so quickly and Aludra mentions something about sticks, but says no more. Tammuz and the others are waking up so Aludra leaves quickly and Mat and Thom follow shortly after with their newly won horses.





Chapter 41. A Hunter's Oath.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


As the ship arrives in Illian, Pairin is watching everywhere but what is happening on the ship. He is trying to avoid thinking about his companions. Zarine and Mworane are looking out on the city trying hard not to look at each other. Mworane was annoyed that Pairin did not tell her that Zarine recognized her as Eyes Sedai, but became truly angry when she learned that Zarine thought following them would lead to the Horn of Valere. Pairin did not think Zarine needed to tell Mworane these things. Pairin argued with Zarine and one of them let slip that Mworane is Eyes Sedai, so now everyone on the ship knows which annoys Mworane further. LAN watches the two and tries not to let Mworane see him laugh. He justifies his amusement to Mworane as something he will need if he is sent to Myrelle. Loial mostly makes himself scarce to avoid the frosty attitude between the women. Pairin cannot hear the wolves and doesn't want to hear them either. He had a couple of dreams where Hopper appears to chase him away, telling him it is too dangerous for him.

They disembark at the dock along with the horses, with the captain bowing deferentially to Mworane. Zarine tickles the back of Pairin’s neck, and combined with the familiar smell of her, Pairin finds himself thrown off balance again. Mworane tells Zarine that it would be best for her to leave now but Zarine declines, and says that Mworane will not stop her from following. Mworane says Zarine can come along if she swears on her Hunter's Oath that she will follow Mworane's orders and not leave the party once she learns inside information about them and their mission. Zarine must also not ask any questions. LAN is surprised that Mworane is offering Zarine the chance to stay. Zarine swears and the two women enter a solemn agreement. Mworane assigns Pairin as Zarine's guide and watchdog and lets slip that Pairin is tahveeren. Mworane comments that she did her best to dissuade Zarine but it seems Zarine will be Pairin's falcon after all, as Min had said. Zarine immediately questions Pairin about the falcon comment and Min, which Pairin refuses to answer. He picks up Zarine and puts her on his horse. He tries to get her to address him by name but she refuses because he refuses to call her Faile. Pairin is disgruntled that Min told Mworane about his viewing.





Chapter 42. Easing the Badger.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


In Illian, Zarine tells Pairin about the city and the Square of Tammaz where she took her Hunter’s Oath. Loial is uneasy because Ogier stonemasons from Stedding Shangtai built the city, and they send for them when things need to be repaired. Loial is afraid one of them will see him. Pairin says Mworane will not let anyone take him back to the Stedding. Loial mentions traveling through the Ways, which Faile overhears. Pairin is annoyed at himself for bringing this up because he wants to give Zarine as little information as possible in the hopes that she will get bored and leave. Loial and Mworane both say that something is wrong in the city, which makes Pairin look more closely. He then notices that at least one in five people have an oddly angry expression and they don't seem to realize it. They come to an inn called Easing the Badger. 

The innkeeper, Nieda Sidoro, is an eyes-and-ears agent for Mworane. She gives Mworane the local news but refers to her as Mari. She talks about the weather and this winter being worse than any others except last year. Nieda tells Mworane that she is having dreams of Lord Brend, who was recently raised to the Council of Nine even though no one had ever heard of him before. Mworane is greatly concerned about this. The council has forbidden any ship to sail for Tear. Also, there is talk of war with Tear. The party goes up to get settled in their rooms before having their evening meal. 

Loial is very pleased that the inn has an Ogier room. They begin to eat their meal and then Pairin smells something wrong. Six men walk toward him and he barely notices them when he looks at them but he can smell them. Then they have daggers in their hands and Pairin yells, and Mworane and LAN get up. The attackers seem to be focused on Pairin, ignoring the other members of the party. The fight is over quickly with all six Gray Men dead. The entire inn knows that Mworane is Eyes Sedai now as she was forced to channel to fight the Gray Men. Pairin realizes that he had smelled Gray Men at Jarra and Remen. Nieda does not believe that the dead men are Gray Men, although when Mworane calls them Darkfriends she is much more accepting. Mworane tells LAN she must go out alone and that should she die, LAN must take Pairin with him back to Tar Vawlyn.





Chapter 43. Shadowbrothers.

Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

LAN asks Pairin how he knew the Gray Men were there and he says he could smell them. LAN takes Pairin outside and Faile and Loial go with them. LAN says they are going to look for something, but doesn’t know what. Pairin follows LAN to a hound print in the stone with a trail leading to and from the inn. They are prints from a Darkhound which only leaves prints in stone but not dirt. LAN again offers Faile the chance to leave as she has not learned too much yet, but she still declines. LAN tells them to go get some sleep as he is going after Mworane to tell her of the Darkhound.

Pairin goes to sleep, hoping to enter the Wolf Dream and talk with Hopper and find out why Gray Men and Darkhounds are after him.

First he finds himself in what he thinks are someone else's dreams. They feature a tall man, sometimes holding a blazing sword, sometimes sitting in a throne with kings and queens groveling before him.[1]

Then he experiences a series of images while standing atop a mountain in a rugged landscape.

Mat is dicing with Ba'alzamon without realizing it.

Igwayne, Nine'eev and Elayne stand looking at a huge metal cage with a raised door held on a heavy spring. They release the door, trapping themselves. A woman with her hair in braids laughs at them and a woman in white laughs at the woman in braids.

Hopper arrives and Pairin asks the wolf about the Gray Men and Darkhounds. Hopper only says that the Last Hunt comes and that he should flee the Shadowbrothers. Hopper knocks him off the mountain cliff to force him to waken when he hits the ground. When Pairin wakes up, Zarine is there and she wonders if he is the Dragon Reborn, considering his company and those chasing him. Mworane storms into the room, saying that Pairin's wolf dreams are indeed as true as a Dreamer's. She has confirmed that the Forsaken are loose and one of them rules in Illian. 

Chapter 44. Hunted.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Sammael (Lord Brend) is in Illian, according to Mworane. Mworane asks Zarine one more time if she wishes to continue on the journey with them. Zarine ponders it for a moment but decides it is too grand an adventure to pass up. Pairin is convinced that Zarine must have a very good reason for staying and demands to know what she wants, but Mworane does not have time for this and ushers them out of the inn. They pass Loial packing up on the way to the stable where Mworane tries to convince Nieda Sidoro to flee the city with her loved ones lest they be killed for her connection to Mworane. LAN shows Zarine a horse which is now hers and Zarine hops onto it with surprising skill. Mworane says Sammael did not send the Gray Men, only the Darkhounds. Pairin questions Mworane on why the Gray Men would be after him when Rand is the Dragon Reborn in front of Nieda and Zarine, shocking the two of them. Angry at Pairin's indiscretion, Mworane swears the innkeeper to secrecy and tells Zarine that she is bound to them now and cannot leave them. Nieda now believes that she must leave the city. The five of them ride out of the stable.

Pairin hopes the clearing skies will be good for them to get away from Illian and the Darkhounds. LAN tells him that Darkhounds do not like rain, clear moonless nights are when they hunt best. A full pack is chasing them and they gather on top of a hill with a clear view since they will not be able to outrun them. Loial looks at a nearby carving which looks like an Ogier, but they are not near a stedding. Pairin tries to shoot them with his bow to little effect while Loial and Zarine hold the horses to stop them from fleeing. Mworane finally uses balefire which destroys the Darkhounds. Pairin questions Mworane more on what is going on and she slips and says that Mat blew the Horn of Valere. Faile is shocked and disappointed that the Hunt is over already. 



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat sits in front of a fire, holding one of the fireworks given to him by Aludra. He takes a knife and carefully slices it open. He sees the inside is made out of paper and tiny gray-black pebbles. Thom freaks out that Mat actually opened up one of the fireworks despite Aludra's warnings. Mat throws the bits into the fire which causes Thom to become enraged, but nothing much happens. A woman and three men approach their fire and start to attack. Mat throws another firework into the fire which actually explodes and distracts the attackers. Thom kills one with a thrown knife, then another. Mat fights easily handles the third man with his quarterstaff. The woman is approaching Mat when Thom throws a knife into the throat of the woman. Mat says she was harmless by herself, so Thom didn't need to kill her. Thom points out that she was holding a dagger in her hand. Mat recognizes one of the men from the attack on their ship when they left Tar Vawlyn. Mat thinks about the fireworks again and wonders what would happen if he set them all off at once. He says they have to get going immediately and is even more convinced that he is being hunted because of Elayne's letter.





Chapter 45. Kaymlin.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat and Thom arrive at Kaymlin. Mat wants to deliver the letter from Elayne right away but Thom says they should go to the Queen's Blessing to get a meal and a bed first. Mat vaguely remembers the Queen's Blessing and how Mworane had found Rand and him there after having previously been separated. He's happy to be free of Mworane now, she's Rand's problem. Mat tells Thom to go on to the inn by himself and he will go to the palace first. Thom warns Mat not to get lost, but it is easy to get to the palace because it is at the center of the city and the streets all spiral in on it. Mat tries to explain his errand to the gate officer, but the officer interrupts Mat and won't let him finish his explanation. The gate officer says he will take no word to the Queen from Tar Vawlyn. When Mat continues to try to explain, the gate officer accuses Mat of being a Darkfriend and commands the guards to seize him. Mat rides away and barely escapes the guards.

Mat is annoyed at himself for mentioning Tar Vawlyn first instead of just saying he has a letter from Elayne. He doesn't know why the palace is so against Tar Vawlyn now, they weren't before. Mat finds the Queen’s Blessing after some wandering, seeking out Thom and Basel Gill. Basel and Thom are playing stones. Basel says Lord Gaebril has replaced half the guards in Kaymlin with those of his own and that Gareth Bryne has been forced out of the city. For luck, Mat rolls the dice and gets five single pips - the Dark One's Eyes. He's just not sure whether that is the best or worst roll as it depends on the game being played. Mat plans to sneak into the palace and deliver the letter directly to the Queen, as the longer he holds the letter the more dangerous it will be for him.





Chapter 46. A Message Out of the Shadow.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat decides to try again to get into the palace and to deliver the letter from Elayne to Morgays. He climbs up the wall that Rand used when he first met Elayne. Mat drops down into the palace gardens, where he avoids the guards. Mat hears a man with a commanding voice talking about plots. The man tells Comar to go to Tear and quietly kill Elayne and also kill the other two which Mat realizes must be Igwayne and Nine'eev. Mat wonders again what the three women are up to, going to Tear. Mat peeks through the window and sees a man muttering to himself, which must be Comar.

Tallanvor sees Mat and almost draws his blade. Mat manages to tell him he has a letter from Elayne, showing the seal. Tallanvor wants to deliver the letter but Mat tells him he promised to deliver the letter to Morgays himself. On the way to Morgays, Mat ponders on what his reward will be when he tells Morgays of the plot against her daughter. When Mat gives the letter to Morgays, Gaebril ask to see the letter. Mat realizes Gaebril is the voice he heard ordering Comar to kill Elayne so he can't reveal the plot. Gaebril reads that Elayne is out of the Tower again on a service for the Amyrlin Seat and questions Mat about it. Mat claims to be Thom Grinwell and says he knows nothing about it, as he was only visiting his sister Else. Gaebril considers putting Mat to the question, but Morgays disagrees and Gaebril lets it go. Morgays tells Mat to tell Elayne that she will not remove Elayne from the Tower prematurely after all as she had previously decided that in anger. Mat acknowledges this but doubts he will see Elayne again as he will not return to Tar Vawlyn. Gaebril accepts Mat's tale and dismisses him with ten gold marks. Gaebril then starts talking to Morgays about claiming the Sun Throne of Kai'rienne and Tallanvor leads Mat away.





Chapter 47. To Race the Shadow.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


As Tallanvor leads Mat to the palace gate, Mat worries whether Gaebril figured out that Mat overheard his plan to have Elayne killed. Mat wants to walk quicker due to his fear but cannot since he has to follow Tallanvor. Plus it would be suspicious if he started running. Tallanvor dresses down Elber at the gate for not letting Mat in. Tallanvor asks Mat about what Morgays said regarding Sheriam, but Mat does not know what it means. Tallanvor seems to think that Morgays is trying to communicate something discreetly. Mat asks Tallanvor whether he serves Morgays and Gaebril faithfully, but Tallanvor says only that he serves Morgays, to the death.

When Mat returns to the inn, he says he is on the road to Tear after he eats. Mat asks Basel Gill about Gaebril. He says Gaebril came during the winter and led the men supporting Morgays during the riots. His reward for supporting Morgays was the post of advisor to the Queen. There is not much real information about Gaebril, who he is or where he came from. Mat says Gaebril wants Elayne dead, and tells them he overheard Gaebril talking to Comar. Basel would like to do something but can't think of anything that would help. Thom says Basel can spread some rumors about Gaebril that will cut his support. Morgays will hear the rumors sooner or later and may take warning.

Mat says he is going to Tear right away but Thom says he wants a good night's sleep first. Mat is leaving right after he eats so Thom agrees to go right away and says they need to go to Aringill to catch a fast boat. Mat leaves the purse of ten gold marks with Gill to represent a wager between him and Gaebril. Mat rolls the dice again and gets five sixes and states "I always win."





Chapter 48. Following the Craft.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


As the Darter approaches to the docks at Tear, Igwayne attempts to get over her seasickness. Nine'eev is doing even worse and frequently vomits. They are traveling under fake names without showing their Great Serpent rings. Channeling is illegal in Tear and any known Eyes Sedai are closely watched. Igwayne continues to have dreams but she can't figure out the meanings. She is frustrated that she cannot make her dreams give her information regarding things she is interested in, such as the Black Ajah.



A Whitecloak putting Master Luhhan in the middle of a huge, toothed trap for bait
Pairin with a falcon on his shoulder
Pairin choosing between his axe and a blacksmith's hammer
Mat dicing with the Dark One and shouting, "I am coming!" — and she thinks he's shouting that to her
Rand sneaking through darkness toward Callandor, followed by six men and five women, including a man with eyes of flame who wanted Rand desperately
Rand in a dry, dusty chamber with small creatures settling on to his skin
Rand confronting a horde of Shawn'chin
Rand confronting her and she has a Shawn'chin woman with her


They get off the ship with their horses and on to dry land. They get off in the waterside district of the Maule, where it is muddy everywhere. People use special platformed shoes to avoid sinking into the mud. Igwayne looks at the people and sees that many faces seem to have given up. The imposing Stone of Tear can be seen in the distance. Igwayne and Nine'eev are still at odds on almost every topic that comes up. Elayne had sewn their dresses on the ship to be divided for riding. Elayne says they need a thief-taker, to help them find Liandrin and the rest of the Black Ajah. Igwayne says they can just ask an innkeeper to find one for them. Nine'eev says they should not stay at an inn or the Black Ajah will surely find out about them and attack them.

After riding the streets for a while Nine'eev spots the house of a Wisdom, although they are not called that in Tear. Nine'eev asks Mother Guenna for something to settle her stomach as pretext. Nine'eev and Mother Guenna fire questions at each other, to sound each other out about their herb knowledge and to learn new things. Nine'eev asks Guenna what she hears on the wind, but Guenna cannot do that. Igwayne is annoyed at this time wasting and stops the back and forth by pointing out that Nine'eev really doesn't need to learn about herbs and such anymore, which causes Nine'eev to snap that Igwayne used to care about these learning things too. Elayne asks how Guenna handles women that won't stop arguing with each other. Mother Guenna replies that after she is paid, she sticks their heads in a barrel of water until they agree to stop arguing. Mother Guenna says most of the people who see her lately need a cure for bad dreams. Nine'eev asks to hire rooms from her, but Mother Guenna wishes an explanation first. They explain they are chasing dangerous thieves, Darkfriends, and have no men-folk they could call on to do it for them. She leaves to bring Jeweleen Sandar, a thief-catcher, to help them.





Chapter 49. A Storm in Tear.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Jeweleen says he can help them until the High Lords need him. He has seen men walking the rooftops in Tear and believes it is only a matter of time until someone asks him to catch the thieves. Elayne asks why he doesn't wear a sword and Jeweleen says it is not allowed unless you are a lord. Nine'eev explains that she wants Jeweleen to find thirteen women and goes on to describe them. Nine'eev says that he is not to try to recover the stolen objects they carry as the women are extremely dangerous and Jeweleen reluctantly agrees. Nine'eev feels a storm coming. After the wise woman goes to her bed, the others go to Igwayne's room so she can use the dream ter'angreal.

Igwayne is in the field of flowers again, wearing green silk this time. She has learned some of the rules of Tel'aran'rhiod and can go where she wants now. She pictures the Heart of the Stone, and Callandor and is taken there. She sees thirteen women, one of them is Liandrin, all looking at Callandor. They see her. Igwayne wakes and sits up, gasping for air. She says they are waiting for them, and they know they are in Tear. Outside, the thunderstorm begins pouring rain down on the city. 



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Playing stones with Thom, Mat wants to know if Thom ever loses. Captain Derne comes in, shaking the rain off his coat. Derne tells them that they are docking at Tear now and collects the rest of his payment. Mat paid a hefty sum so that the ship would travel as quickly as possible, through storms and all. As Mat and Thom walk through the rain looking for an inn, they pass by the Wise Woman's home where Elayne, Nine'eev and Igwayne are staying. Mat thinks there is no chance the women are staying in such a muddy district. Exposed to the rain, Thom starts coughing. They arrive at The White Crescent and leave their belongings in their room. Mat has a meal and then goes out to look for the girls and Thom insists on coming along, as men talk freely to gleemen. Mat asks about the women and Comar at the inns he sees, while Thom tells stories and talks to the patrons.

Thom is ready to collapse and tells Mat they need to head back to the inn for some sleep. Before they go in the next inn he sees a tall man walking up the street and thinks he looks like Rand but can't believe that it could be. Mat says one more inn and they walk inside The Golden Cup where he finds Comar. Comar is dicing and winning almost every toss. The innkeeper is furious at this outlander bullying Tairens but cannot do anything about a man who is just lucky. Thom doubts it is luck and demonstrates how he can use weighted dice to win while using sleight of hand to swap out the dice before the other man takes his turn. Comar is smart and weighs the dice to return a high roll but not the highest so it is not too suspicious. Mat wants the innkeeper to call the Defenders to arrest the man, but the innkeeper says that the Defenders would never believe him over a rich foreigner.

Mat goes over and gambles with Comar, carefully stopping him from changing the dice. Mat expects the dice to roll the same every time forcing repeated ties which would prove the cheating. But Mat's luck wins out over the weighted dice, winning the toss anyway. Mat baits Comar into accidentally admitting that he has not found Elayne yet. Comar pulls his sword but Mat flips the table to defend himself and in the scuffle Comar breaks his back. As he dies, Comar taunts Mat, saying that others are hunting the women too. The innkeeper tells Mat to go and says he will give the Defenders Rand's description as the killer. "A man I dreamed of," he says. "He's not real." The other patrons all lost money to Comar and will go along with the story. They hurry out of the inn.

Mat has an epiphany and tells Thom his luck only works when things are random like dice, but less with cards and not at all with stones. If he is to find the girls he needs to do things randomly. Mat and Thom look for the girls for three days with Mat choosing different random methods to decide where to look. Mat hears lots of rumors of wars and invasions but nothing about Igwayne and the others. Thom's cough gets worse since the weather is still miserable. Mat starts having dreams of Rand and another man weaving a net.





Chapter 50. The Hammer.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin, Loial, Mworane, LAN and Zarine finally arrive in Tear after chasing after Rand for weeks. Pairin and Zarine still bicker and Pairin will not call her Faile. Loial notes that the people around them in the streets look defeated. They arrive at the inn LAN chose, The Star, where Jurah Haret shows them to their rooms. Haret looks weary and defeated too. Pairin asks Mworane how they will find Rand but Mworane says only that they are to stay near the inn and goes outside with LAN. Zarine seems to finally fit the pieces together. They are looking for Rand, the Dragon Reborn, in Tear, where the Stone of Tear holds Callandor. She is starting to have second thoughts about her involvement.

Pairin goes to the smithy next door, and helps out Dermid Ajala, who is short-handed at the moment. Dermid asks Pairin to work a piece of metal. When that turns out successfully he asks for more items that need to be made. At the end of the day Dermid tells Pairin that he is a master blacksmith. Zarine has been watching Pairin work for a while. Dermid says Pairin can come back anytime and work since his apprentices have all run away complaining about nightmares. Zarine asks whether Pairin came all this way just to be a blacksmith again. Pairin says no although perhaps he will be a blacksmith again one day. As Pairin puts the blacksmith's hammer back on the wall, Dermid tells him to take it. Perhaps Pairin will be able to use it again when he is able to be a blacksmith again. Pairin puts it in his room, next to this axe, to remind him of home.

Mworane returns and gathers everyone in the private dining room. Mworane announces that Be'lal, one of the Forsaken, is High Lord Samon. Be'lal's plan is to allow Rand in to the Heart of the Stone since only the Dragon Reborn can take Callandor from the traps protecting it. Then Rand will be captured or killed and Be'lal will have Callandor, one of the most powerful sa'angreal ever made. Zarine asks whether they will run again as they ran from Sammael, but Mworane says they cannot run this time. They must stay and fight to help Rand. Loial tells what he has learned of Be'lal, which isn't a lot except he is called the Netweaver and that he was envious of Lews Therin Telamon and Ishamael. It was said that he was cunning and even defeated Lews Therin in the game of Stones. This information reaffirms Mworane's belief that Be'lal plots to gain Callandor to increase his power.

Mworane and LAN plan to attempt to enter the Stone and foil the plan while the rest of the party remains behind. LAN will have to find a way in and it will be much harder for a larger party. Mworane reveals that in the year since she took the three boys from the Two Rivers, she has learned how to weave balefire. LAN notes that he has seen Eye’eel on the rooftops. Pairin tells her that Gaul mentioned that when the Stone of Tear falls, the Eye’eel will leave the Three-fold Land. Mworane worries about what their part is since they are not mentioned in the Prophecies of the Dragon.



Unanswered Questions[]


Where and how did Mworane learn the weave for balefire?




Chapter 51. Bait for the Net.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev thinks she sees Rand, but when she tries to get a better look, a cart moves between them. Nine'eev laments the high prices despite the low quality of meat. The mood of the people concerns her. In the Two Rivers, people picked themselves back up, instead of spending their days sulking. Nine'eev is frustrated that Igwayne still objects to almost every suggestion she makes. At least she convinced Igwayne to stop using the dream ring at night since the Black Ajah were in Tel'aran'rhoid. Thinking about the Black Ajah and Eyes Sedai reminds her of how much she hates Mworane. Jeweleen finds Nine'eev and says the women she seeks are guests of the High Lord Samon. Jeweleen is very nervous and shifty. They walk back to Mother Guenna's house.

Nine'eev walks into the house and realizes it is a trap when she sees Guenna sitting in a chair unable to move. Liandrin walks into the room. Nine'eev tries to channel but finds herself shielded, so she punches Liandrin and Rianna Andomeran, trying to run out of range of the shielding. Liandrin and her companion use Air to beat Nine'eev. Liandrin says Nine'eev fought almost as fiercely as Igwayne who was punished with Air too. Rianna is about to kill Guenna but Liandrin allows her to live in exchange for her silence, saying that Rianna kills too quickly when people can be used. Liandrin used Compulsion to make Jeweleen bring them to Nine'eev. Liandrin puts Nine'eev into her coach along with Elayne and Igwayne to take her to her master, the High Lord Samon. Igwayne is unconscious and badly bruised. Liandrin says they are bait, part of the plan laid by the Forsaken Be'lal. Nine'eev and Elayne try to bluff Liandrin into believing that they themselves are bait to capture the Black Ajah, but it has no apparent effect. Liandrin says only that after they are used as bait, they will be interrogated and then thirteen Myrddraal will be used to turn them to the Shadow.





Chapter 52. In Search of a Remedy.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Thom is sick with a severe cough. Mat wants him to see a Wise Woman, but Thom says he does not need foul-tasting concoctions. Mat thinks Thom’s cough will not go away on its own. Mat takes Thom to the nearby house where he had seen herbs in the window on the first night when they arrived. As he arrives, he can still see tracks from the carriage that carried Igwayne, Nine'eev, and Elayne away to the Stone. He knocks on the door and Mother Guenna reluctantly agrees to help.

Inside, Mat looks through the window and sees three horses tied up in the back, which is unusual in this part of the city. Thom yells at Guenna for her foul tasting medicine and she yells back at him. Mat decides to make some conversation to smooth things over and comments on Guenna's accent which sounds like the Ahmerlin’s. Mother Guenna says she knew some girls with his accent. Even though the names are different, after they share descriptions Mat knows he has found the three girls. After some convincing and swearing to secrecy, Mat gets her to tell him where they went. She tells him they were taken to the Stone on orders of High Lord Samon, by women who could channel, just three hours ago. Guenna cannot understand why a High Lord would be consorting with Eyes Sedai when channeling is illegal in Tear, a law that the High Lords themselves made. Mat is relieved because Eyes Sedai would not hurt them, as Accepted, but Guenna says they resisted fiercely and the Eyes Sedai hurt them badly. Mat is so angry at himself for walking past this house on the first night that he punches the wall without realizing it. Mat leaves to find a way to get the girls out and leaves Thom with Mother Guenna, despite Thom's protests. As he heads back to the inn, he feels dice tumbling in his head for the first time.





Chapter 53. A Flow of the Spirit.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin spends another day working in the smithy for Dermid Ajala with Zarine watching him. Having Zarine around watching him all the time makes him very uneasy. Pairin almost calls her Faile but catches himself, which amuses her greatly. She suggests that he would look better with a beard. They head to the inn and meet up with Mworane and LAN. Mworane says that Rand is in Tear and LAN cites a variety of strange happenings that can only be caused by the presence of a strong tahveeren. Mworane says Zarine, Pairin, and Loial should go to Tar Vawlyn, while she and LAN enter the Stone of Tear. Pairin is tired of running again and thinks that it was better when they were fighting back. Zarine says she is fine with running from the Forsaken and goes to fetch Loial.

Pairin goes upstairs and sees Zarine on the floor next to a small hedgehog on the floor. When he sees her, he calls her Faile. Mworane says she felt it trigger; she senses flows of Spirit in the area. When questioned, the innkeeper admits to allowing two women to bring a "surprise present" for Mworane to their private dining room, despite previously promising that nobody would be allowed to enter. Mworane says Faile is alive, but not in her body any longer. Zarine is trapped in a dream, maybe Tel'aran'rhiod. Mworane says she must go to the Stone, and Pairin thinks the wolf dream is similar to where Zarine is trapped. Mworane wants him to leave and go to Tar Vawlyn, but he refuses and decides he must help Faile.

Pairin explains to Loial about the trap. He asks Loial to guard his back while he tries to help Faile. Loial is enraged that a free spirit like Faile would be trapped so he promises that no one, not even the Dark One, will pass him while he lives. Pairin jumps into the room and finds himself in the Wolf Dream, with a wide expanse of wilderness around him. Hopper meets Pairin and says he should leave, that he is here too strongly and will die. Pairin replies that he doesn't care, Faile is there and he must free her. Pairin feels himself turn into a wolf, even bigger than Hopper. Hopper declares that they will hunt and they set out across the plain.





Chapter 54. Into the Stone.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat has been going around the Stone of Tear all evening, trying to find the best way to get in. The best path he has found so far is to go from a rooftop to the city wall which connects to the Stone's wall. He sees someone scaling the wall of the Stone and is worried that the man is going to get caught and trigger the alarm. He has his fireworks bundle and a tin box with a coal in it. He is examining the city wall trying to find the best way to climb it when he feels a blade at his throat. He fights the wielder briefly but is outnumbered and finds himself surrounded by spears. He looks at the other people and sees them wearing black veils which makes them Eye’eel. Jeweleen arrives and questions the reason the Eye’eel are on the rooftops but the Eye’eel respond to him with the same question. Jeweleen says he is trying to right a wrong he did someone. Mat admits he wants to rescue some friends in the Stone. The leader of the Eye’eel says he is Rhuarc, and means no harm as long as they do not raise the alarm. Mat asks whether the Eye’eel will help him since they seem interested in the Stone too, but Rhuarc declines. The Eye’eel leave and head toward the Stone.





Jeweleen asks whether the friends are three women, which Mat confirms. He says he can help Mat get the women out by pretending Mat is a thief he is bringing to the jail. Mat decides to create a diversion with the fireworks first. With the Eye’eel heading into the stone via the city wall section that he was looking at before, he heads in the opposite direction and finds an arrow slit. It is too small for him to fit through but he is able to wedge his bundle of fireworks in it and sets it off. The explosion is much larger than he expected and there is now a substantial hole where the arrow slit used to be, big enough to enter the Stone. He decides this is a better bet than hoping Jeweleen doesn't betray him in the proposed captured thief ruse, but when he gets inside he realizes his mistake because the area is now swarming with Defenders of the Stone. He intended this to be a diversion after all and the Tairens are indeed diverted to the area. There are too many for Mat until Jeweleen jumps through the hole in the wall too and the Defenders are sandwiched between them and are quickly subdued. Jeweleen is in shock that he actually attacked Defenders and thinks he will be executed; then he questions Mat about what happened, thinking that Mat may be a male channeler. Mat says only that it was fireworks and tells Jeweleen to lead him to the jail cells. The alarm gong begins to sound.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand hears the alarm gongs after Mat sets off his fireworks but cannot pay attention to them. Callandor is close now and one way or another he will be done with being hunted, done with the dreams taunting and baiting him.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne wakes up and recalls that she was dreaming about Rand and Mat shouting that he is coming. She sees the cell walls and reacts badly, but Nine'eev and Elayne are there to soothe her. She remembers being beaten by Liandrin when she refused to submit. She asks Elayne if they are still shielded. Nine'eev says she tried to Heal them but could not. Amico is sitting outside the door maintaining the shield. Igwayne remembers Liandrin saying they are bait. She remembers her dreams of Rand and Callandor and realizes they are bait for Rand. She is puzzled though by her dreams of Mat and Pairin.

Igwayne says she still has the twisted stone ring and can use the World of Dreams to get them out. Nine'eev is skeptical and concerned, since the last time Igwayne went there she ran into the Black Ajah. Igwayne actually hopes to find the Black Ajah this time though, perhaps she can fight them there because they cannot fight in the real world currently. She drifts to sleep and in Tel'aran'rhiod she is not shielded. She goes to the Heart of the Stone and finds Joiya Byir and shields her. After tying off the shield, she goes to see if she can find a way to get them out of the cells.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin and Hopper are in the Stone of Tear in the Wolf Dream. They kill guards, who are surprised to see wolves, in a corridor and come to a locked door. Pairin becomes a man again and uses his hammer to break the lock on the door. He finds Faile inside who is glad to see him. He smashes the bolts holding her but she disappears. Hopper says the Wolf Dream is different from the real world and the two continue their hunt with Pairin remaining in human form.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat is fighting High Lord Darlin and is not finding any openings. Finally Mat attacks all out and is able to sweep his feet out, then crack him on the head. Mat thinks he sees Rand trotting through a hallway but believes he must be mistaken. Mat hits another High Lord in the head by accident when putting his staff back on his shoulder. He and Jeweleen are looking for a shortcut passage the High Lords use to get to the jail cells.





Chapter 55. What Is Written in Prophecy.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor Setting: Heart of the Stone.


Rand enters the Heart of the Stone in the Stone of Tear where Callandor rests. The Forsaken Be'lal is waiting for him and tries to taunt Rand into taking Callandor. Be'lal reveals some of the past of Lews Therin Telamon and also tells Rand that Callandor is a sa'angreal that had been made at the end of the Age of Legends.

Rand still has his doubts about being the Dragon Reborn so he doesn't try to grab Callandor. Be'lal creates a sword using the One Power (made of black fire) and starts using force to drive him to it. Rand creates a sword of his own (made of red flame) and fights back. Rand realizes that Be'lal is a true blademaster and he is slowly driven towards Callandor by the Forsaken's superior skill. While they are fighting, Eye’eel and Defenders of the Stone enter the Heart of the Stone and continue their battle. Rand, caught up in his fight, is unaware of his surroundings and trips over a dead body. Be'lal comes towards him, saying if Rand doesn't take Callandor, he will die.

Mworane suddenly appears, startling both Be'lal and Rand. Be'lal says he's surprised that she is alive still, then raises his free hand to destroy her with the One Power. But before he can complete his weave, Mworane raises both her hands and shoots balefire, killing Be'lal instantly. Mworane tells Rand that Callandor is his birthright, and he should take it. Black lightning suddenly grabs Mworane and hurls her across the floor.

Ba'alzamon appears in the air and tells Rand that he is going to die. Rand realizes he truly has no choice now and leaps toward Callandor as Ba'alzamon attacks him with the Power. As his hands grasp Callandor, he feels the Power surge through him. Rand is nearly driven mad from the amount of the Power the sa'angreal lets him wield, but he gains control. Rand turns to Ba'alzamon and says he's going to "finish it once and for all!" Ba'alzamon flees by Traveling to Tel'aran'rhiod, and Rand Travels himself to hunt for him.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer Setting: The Stone of Tear within Tel'aran'rhiod.


Igwayne enters the dungeon of the Stone of Tear within Tel'aran'rhiod. Unsure which cell Nine'eev and Elayne are in, she suddenly sees a flicker of a woman sitting on a bench down the hallway. Igwayne realizes it's Amico Nagoyin, the Black Ajah Eyes Sedai who is guarding the cell where the girls are held and maintaining the shield that blocks them from touching the True Source. Amico is falling in and out of sleep with a dream ter'angreal in her hand.

Igwayne prepares a weave of Air to physically hold Amico, and a separate weave of Spirit to shield her from the One Power. When Amico flickers into Tel'aran'rhiod again, Igwayne hits her with the weaves, holding Amico in place. Igwayne channels Earth into the cell's lock, destroying it, and then swings the door open. She exits Tel'aran'rhiod. 



Setting: Stone of Tear


Igwayne awakes to find the cell door still shut and the shield still maintained on them all, but at least Amico is still bound by Air. Igwayne tries to fall asleep to enter Tel'aran'rhiod again, to find another way to break free. 



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Matrim Cauthon and Jeweleen Sandar enter the dungeon of the Stone of Tear. Mat sees Amico sitting on the bench, physically paralyzed but mentally awake. Jeweleen warns him that she is an Eyes Sedai, but Mat risks it and takes the cell door key off her person. He unlocks the door next to Amico and flings it open. Nine'eev and Elayne are kneeling around Igwayne, who is sleeping on the floor. Both are surprised to see Mat. Upon seeing the door opened, they wake Igwayne up. Then they all glare at Jeweleen who admits he wronged them. Jeweleen says he was compelled to do so and the women decide that they will deal with him later.

They exit the cell and see Amico who begs for mercy. Nine'eev punches her in the face, knocking her unconscious. The shields disappear, and they embrace saidar. Nine'eev Heals the other girls of their wounds. Mat starts criticizing Nine'eev for hitting a defenseless woman then he is lifted off the ground with the One Power. They reprimand him for commenting without understanding the situation; Mat says they are ungrateful for his effort in freeing them. They agree and let him down with a thud. Mat wants to leave the Stone immediately lest they be caught up in all the fighting, but the women are not abandoning their chance to capture the rest of the Black Ajah. The girls exit the dungeon to search for Liandrin and the others and Mat and Jeweleen feel compelled to follow to protect them from getting hurt.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra Setting:  Tel'aran'rhiod.


Pairin is still in the Wolf Dream trying to rescue Faile from her hedgehog slumber. He has found her several times, but each time it is an illusion he rescues, not the real Faile. Pairin sees someone he thinks could be Rand but can't believe Rand would be in the Wolf Dream. Pairin is becoming weak from being too fully in the dream.

Hopper leads Pairin to another set of doors and says that Faile is beyond it. He pounds his hammer against the doors and on the third swing the doors shatter like glass. Faile is chained to a perch. When Pairin tries to free her, many falcons in the room attack him. He finally reaches the chain and snaps it with his hands. 



Setting: The Star, an inn in Tear


Pairin wakes up in the real world, laying on the floor of the private dining room of the Star inn, in pain. Faile is wiping blood off his face. They exchange some tender words and look deeply into each other's eyes. 



Point of view: Rand al'Thor Setting:  Tel'aran'rhiod.


Rand is in the Heart of the Stone, but there are no men and there is no battle. He hears three loud sounds like a gong from Pairin rescuing Faile. Ba'alzamon shoots balefire at Rand, but the stream splits around Callandor. He chases Ba'alzamon and instinctively channels to protect himself from attacks. Only the enormous power he is able to channel allows him to survive. As the chase continues, Tel'aran'rhiod changes rapidly as Ba'alzamon tries to change the dream world to kill him. Sometimes the air turns into water; sometimes it turns into stone. Rand is instinctively able to change the world back to the way it should be to save himself. Eventually he finds himself back in the Heart of the Stone, facing Ba'alzamon. He sees black cords run off from Ba'alzamon into the surrounding darkness. Rand uses Callandor to sever the black cords which causes Ba'alzamon to convulse and Rand takes this opportunity to plunge the blade into his foe's chest.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor Setting: Stone of Tear.


Suddenly Rand is out of Tel'aran'rhiod again, but he doesn't know how. He is back in the real Heart of the Stone. Ba'alzamon is dead at his feet while the Eye’eel and Defenders continue their battle. Rand believes he has killed the Dark One and recognizes that he is indeed the Dragon Reborn. He shouts, "Stop! I am Rand al'Thor! I am the Dragon Reborn!" The fighting stops and the Eye’eel and Defenders alike kneel.





Chapter 56. People of the Dragon.






Point of view: Omni.


The people of Tear awaken from dreams of the Dragon battling Ba'alzamon in the Heart of the Stone. They are startled to find the Dragon Banner now flying over the Stone of Tear. They proclaim Rand al'Thor as the Dragon.  



Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Mat sees the people outside proclaiming Rand as the Dragon. He remembers the fighting in the Stone of Tear, along with Rand wielding Callandor. He has not been able to get close to Rand who is now constantly surrounded by Eye’eel, the remaining High Lords, and Defenders of the Stone. There are now almost two hundred Eye’eel in the Stone. Although about one hundred fell in combat, they killed or captured ten times as many Defenders. Mat is in the High Lords' meeting room with Elayne, Igwayne, Nine'eev, Rhuarc and Mworane. They are surrounded by bookshelves and Rhuarc is reading one of the books. Mat is surprised that the Eye’eel is interested in books.

Mworane tells them that Pairin is also in the city along with a "companion" who is in considerable danger and Pairin may be also. She will return to see to Faile but first she must show them an intact Seal that she found. Three others have been found but broken. They have been lost since the Trolloc Wars, but have now started to appear again. Mworane notes that every time Rand confronted Ba'alzamon a Seal was nearby. Mat wants to understand how things happened as they did. The Prophecies of the Dragon say that the Stone would only fall when the People of the Dragon come. Does that mean the few of them are the People of the Dragon? Mworane says it is possible, as prophecies are often not fulfilled as expected. Rhuarc then steps forward and shows them the dragon on his left arm, and tells them about how the clan chiefs get that mark in Roy'deonne. Mworane is stunned to realize that the Eye’eel are the People of the Dragon.

Mat believes Rand killed the Dark One last night and that the Last Battle is over and won. Mworane says that the Dark One is not dead, as the one who was killed left a body and the Dark One would not. Everyone else is confused by this, even Rhuarc; evidently they had all thought as Mat did. Igwayne recalls the parchment that Verin was reading which connected Ba'alzamon with Ishamael. Mworane agrees that Ba'alzamon may have been Ishamael. If so, there are still nine other Forsaken left and with three of the Seven Seals broken, only four are left to hold the Dark One's prison intact.

Berelain, the First of Mayene, walks into the room and gives Mworane a note, saying that it was given to her by an impressive woman. She is not sure why she is carrying the message since it is not something she normally does. After this realization, she gives herself a shake and recovers her bearings. She tells everyone to inform Rand that she will be dining with the Lord Dragon tonight. Berelain looks at Rhuarc whom she has determined is the leader of the Eye’eel expedition and says she will dine with him also in the near future.

After Berelain leaves, Mworane reads the note which is written by Lanfear. It says that Lews Therin is hers and always has been, but that she delivers him into Mworane's custody for safekeeping until she returns to claim him. Mworane reiterates to Mat there is still much to come as evidenced by the letter; he is tahveeren as well as the sounder of the Horn of Valere and will be an important part of it all. The others all look at him with varied expressions, having now learned his importance. Even Rhuarc seems to have a certain respect in his eyes. Mat reassures Mworane that he will do what needs to be done while mentally preparing to flee. He wonders if Thom has recovered from his sickness yet; maybe Pairin will be willing to leave with them.





