Chapter 1. Seeds of Shadow 






Point of view: Min Farshaw Setting: White Tower


Min Farshaw, wearing a dress as a disguise with a hooded cloak over top, approaches the White Tower afraid someone will recognize her. She has just ridden from the Mountains of Mist on orders of Moiraine Sedai to tell Siuan Sanche, the Amyrlin Seat, of what had happened at Falme and after. Moiraine instructed her to avoid identification by anyone except the Amyrlin and she knows that the wrong Aes Sedai seeing her could spell doom for everything.





Min enters the White Tower and finds herself in the entry hall along with other women and men waiting for someone to answer their questions. There are far more women than men, because men generally do not wish to be associated with Aes Sedai lest they be mistaken for a male channeler. After a slight wait, the Accepted Faolain asks Min, "How may the Tower help you?" Min is relieved to see that Faolain does not recognize her as they had met briefly before, but she still lowers her face and says that she has a question for the Amyrlin Seat when three Aes Sedai enter the chamber. Min has a viewing of them that she understands, seeing that they'll all die on the same day. Faolain tells her that the Amyrlin can't see everyone, but Min invokes the right of any woman to speak to the Amyrlin. Faolain says she will ask if the Amyrlin can see her and asks Min her name. Min gives her full name, Elmindreda; she hopes the Amyrlin remembers her formal name. Faolain is certain that Min will just be told to wait for the Amyrlin's next public audience.

While waiting for a response, Min has other viewings. 



Bars floating in front of an Accepted, like a cage
Sheriam Bayanar, the Mistress of Novices, appeared with a face battered and bruised.
A smiling Sister of the Brown Ajah with a fading aura, like a guttering candle
Death, wounds, captivity


Sahra Covenry, a novice, guides her to the Amyrlin's Study. Min witnesses more death and violence during the walk.



Warders with wildly flashing auras; dead men walking, and she knew that they would die on the same day as the three Aes Sedai earlier. 
An Aes Sedai wearing a silver bracelet




Her plot to conceal her identity works, until Gawyn Trakand recognizes her and accosts her about his missing sister. Min is shocked that her friends Elayne Trakand, Nynaeve al'Meara and Egwene al'Vere are not at the Tower. Gawyn says that they arrived at the Tower safely, but have been sent out again on a supposed penance on a farm but he cannot find out where. She has yet another vision, this of Gawyn with streaks of dried blood making his face a grim mask, and knows that he will be hurt on the same day as the Aes Sedai. Gawyn will also be hurt in a deeper way than his physical wounds. Min is deeply troubled that the three Accepted are out of the Tower again and realizes the Tower troubles foretold by her visions will likely mean trouble for her friends as well.

They argue about whether his motives count as interference or duty before Min recalls her original mission, giving Gawyn a cryptic warning about being careful before walking to the Amyrlin's Study. She witnesses one more vision before leaving him, a sword floating above his head, and a banner waved behind it. The long-hilted sword, like those most Warders used, had a heron engraved on its slightly curved blade, symbol of a blademaster... the banner bore Gawyn's sigil of the charging White Boar, but on a field of green rather than the red of Andor. Both sword and banner faded with the blood. Gawyn tells Min that he will be in the practice yard until sunset and hopes she will meet him there to speak further later.

Min finally reaches the Keeper, who instantly recognizes her and sends her in to the Amyrlin. Min wanted to hide from Leane Sharif too as Moiraine instructed, but Leane does not question her despite the recognition. Leane does not know why Siuan is interested in Min. Min is shocked to view both Leane and Siuan in pain. She tells Siuan of the various visions she's had, including the future death of four Aes Sedai within a day of each other. Siuan immediately plans a way to keep Gawyn and Sahra busy. Min tries to rationalize her fears but doesn't even believe her own logic of Whitecloaks attacking the Tower, but admits that the silver collar can mean none other than the Seanchan attacking the White Tower.

The Amyrlin dismisses her theories, surmising that the attack will come from the Black Ajah. After scaring Min by admitting the existing of a secret Ajah of Aes Sedai that support the Dark One, the Amyrlin demands news of the Dragon and is very displeased at the news that Rand al'Thor is on his way to Tear for Callandor. Siuan says there is no way Rand is ready to take the sword and blames Moiraine, but Min says it is not her fault; Rand left in the night without telling anyone. Siuan admits that she and Moiraine are trying to control Rand to protect him from those who would kill him and prepare him for what must come. Siuan realizes Min is in love with Rand which Min tries to deny to little effect. Min finally admits that she had a viewing that said that she and two other women would fall in love with him, but the viewing did not say whether the love would be reciprocated.

Min wants to leave so she can go to Tear to find Rand, but Siuan argues that staying near Rand will be very dangerous for her and it would be better for her to remain in the Tower. Min points out that everyone knows she is connected to Egwene and Nynaeve who are from Rand's village, and once word gets out that Rand can channel, the Red Ajah will seize her. Siuan agrees and says that she will have to change her appearance and behavior and be a completely different woman under her full name of Elmindreda. Min's talent will help Siuan root out the Black Ajah and she is one of the few Siuan can trust. Min suspects that Siuan sent Elayne, Egwene and Nynaeve after the Black Ajah but Siuan only tells her to remind her own business. Continuing, Siuan points out that if the Black Ajah brings her or the Tower down, Rand will get no help from the Aes Sedai. Min realizes she must agree to stay and help where she can and wails in despair.



Point of view: Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan Setting: White Tower, Outside the Amyrlin's Study


Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan postulates angrily while spying at the Amyrlin's Study. She questions Sahra as the novice rushes by and dismisses her in an instant. Elaida saw through Min's disguise and recalls her connection to the missing Accepted, especially Elayne. Elaida believes in her bones that Elayne is somehow important to the Last Battle because of her Foretelling that the royal line of Andor would be the key to defeating the Dark One. She maneuvered herself into becoming advisor to Queen Morgase Trakand because of this; had she not done so, she might have become Amyrlin herself instead of Siuan. She is furious at Siuan over Elayne's continued disappearance. She remembers that the other two missing Accepted came from Rand's village and Min was friends with them. She remembers her Foretelling at the Royal Court of Andor that Rand would be at the heart of future strife for Andor and possibly more. She remembers Moiraine spiriting Rand away, Rand with two other ta'veren, Perrin Aybara and Matrim Cauthon. Siuan and Moiraine had once been the best of friends, but after their time as Accepted they quickly distanced themselves from each other and their friendship is now largely forgotten by most Aes Sedai, but not her. She becomes convinced that Rand will cause chaos and trouble for Andor and Siuan and Moiraine must be helping him. She resolves to stop Siuan at all costs, to stop Rand al'Thor from destroying Andor. Alviarin Freidhen interrupts her wild musings. Elaida invites the White Sister for a walk and tells her the theory she's surmised against Siuan, gaining an ally.



Point of view: Dain Bornhald Setting: North of Taren Ferry, Two Rivers




Dain Bornhald leads a half-legion of Children of the Light into the Two Rivers, obeying his mysterious orders from the Lord Captain Commander, Pedron Niall. He is on the north bank of the River Taren across from the village of Taren Ferry, which is the main way in or out of the region. The river cannot be forded elsewhere and journeying over the Mountains of Mist would be treacherous. He thinks of his father, now dead at the hands of Darkfriends from these lands. The villagers at Taren Ferry say they are not Darkfriends and claim the Darkfriends must be in the villages to the south. Bornhald confronts Ordeith, whose name means wormwood in the Old Tongue, upon learning that some Tinkers he interrogated are now missing. Dain expresses concern about being tied to a madman but the anger over his father's murder - and the vengeance he thirsts for - outweighs his concern.



Point of view: Suroth Sabelle Meldarath Setting: Cantorin


The High Lady Suroth Sabelle Meldarath has rallied the remaining Seanchan forces to the Sea Folk island of Cantorin after High Lord Turak Aladon's debacle at Falme. Suroth now leads the Hailene. The Sea Folk of the islands have all been captured. She may not have to return to the Court of the Nine Moons and apologize to the Empress after all. To avoid that, she must deal with this man who claims to be the Dragon Reborn so she can retake the Westlands. If she cannot deal with him, the Empress will be the least of her worries.

Suroth enters a room where two sul'dam wait with a damane. One of the sul'dam, Alwhin, has been raised to so'jhin, a high level servant, and now shaves the left side of her head. No sul'dam has ever been raised to so'jhin, but she knows too much. Suroth is uneasy. She no longer trusts sul'dam since finding out that they can learn to channel. The other sul'dam, Taisa, holds the leash on the damane, Pura, who used to be Aes Sedai. Suroth questions Pura about how the White Tower controls the man claiming to be the Dragon Reborn, but Pura only says that the Tower would not control a false Dragon. Suroth knows from Falme that the man can channel, and channel very powerfully. Suroth considers whether he truly is the Dragon Reborn given his power. Suroth presses Pura, saying that the Seanchan soldiers had fought female channelers at Falme, who must have been Aes Sedai, so Aes Sedai must be aiding the man. Pura insists that she does not know what the Aes Sedai have to do with him. She says she has learned how to obey and begs Suroth not to punish her. While she is begging, Pura almost touches Suroth, so Alwhin orders Taisa to punish Pura then report herself to Surela for punishment. Suroth wishes she had the other captured Aes Sedai to question but she does not know what became of her. Pura was unable to tell simple lies, but Suroth still doubts that Aes Sedai cannot lie.

Suroth dismisses Alwhin, but Alwhin is slow to respond; she is not well trained as so'jhin. Suroth says to herself that the worst news (that sul'dam can learn to channel) is known only by four, and two will surely never speak of it. Suroth considers killing the other three who know of it, but Alwhin overhears and implies that Suroth would not survive the wrath from the Empress should she find out that Suroth attempted to withhold this information from her. Suroth dismisses Alwhin again and thinks about what she must accomplish. When she captures this Dragon, false or not, should she give him to the Empress?





Chapter 2. Whirlpools in the Pattern 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara




Two weeks have gone by since the Stone of Tear fell to Rand and the Aiel. Perrin and Faile Bashere are in their quarters in the Stone of Tear. Faile comments on Perrin's lackluster quarters and is sure Mat has better, but Perrin is more than satisfied and wants nothing fancy. Faile tries to talk Perrin into leaving Tear with her, but Perrin insists that he cannot leave because he is ta'veren and too closely tied to Rand. Perrin takes his hammer off the wall and holds it, which makes him feel better.

A cock crows and suddenly Perrin's axe flies toward him and he blocks it with the hammer. The two wrestle with the axe as it tries to kill Perrin. He fends it off with his hammer and then holds it off with one hand, using the other to push Faile out of the room despite her protests. Faile bangs on the door angrily from the other side. He struggles with the axe a bit longer then releases it and parries it as it flies at him and slams into the door. The axe goes dead, but Perrin is worried because he can't hear Faile on the other side of the door. He opens it and sees that the axe stopped only an inch from Faile's nose. Faile is relieved and kisses Perrin fiercely, then slaps him hard for making her worried for his life. Perrin believes that Rand may have unintentionally caused this to happen and decides to confront him about it. 



Point of view: Mat Cauthon




Mat is playing cards in the Stone of Tear with Reimon, Edorion Selorna, Estean Andiama, Carlomin, and Baran, all Tairen lordlings. He prefers dice where his luck has greater effect, but dicing is a commoner activity and these lordlings will have nothing to do with it. He plans to leave as soon as he gets enough money to get away from Rand and Moiraine. Estean, who is rather drunk, steers the conversation from the Sea Folk to the Aiel which disgruntles the other nobles. Mat feels his luck increase but fears that the rich noblemen will leave due to the conversation turning uncomfortable. He decides his best bet is to make fun of himself so he tells them about a game called Maiden's Kiss that he played with two Maidens of the Spear, which leads to outrageous laughter at his expense. The plan works as more gold is tossed on the table. 

Conversation turns from women to bravado, as each lordling boasts how they would clean Tear of all Aiel if they did not serve the Lord Dragon. Estean asks Mat to intercede with Rand on his behalf about Rand's new laws favoring commoners. Annoyed, Mat imagines hitting Estean in the face as he takes a sip of wine, then almost chokes on it when Edorion mentions a rumor that the Dragon means to invade Illian. The lordlings all say that conquering Illian will be easy with the Dragon to lead them, and ask Mat if he has any information about the war. Mat disagrees and doubts Rand would start a war. 

He picks up the fifth card and knows he possesses an unbeatable hand and accidentally blurts out something in the Old Tongue. As the lordlings debate what Mat actually said, he goads them into adding lots of gold into the pot for the hand. A cock crows and suddenly, the card depicting the Amyrlin Seat stabs him with a tiny knife. He drops the cards, and unbelievably, three grow larger and the images begin to step out of the cards to attack him. Mat dispatches them all with rapid knife tosses. Although they are seemingly defeated, Mat takes no chances and rips the cards apart. The others pretend that nothing happened, angering Mat. He doubts the lordlings will be gambling with him again anytime soon after this incident and departs with his coin.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor


 Rand dreams of Moiraine prodding him with a stick to the Amyrlin Seat and her halter for his neck, through a shadowy forest filled with dim shapes. Traps from Darkfriends and the Forsaken await in the darkness. Fear mars Moiraine's face. Rand dodges Moiraine's stick and flees, despite her protests that it is too late to do so.

He appears in the Waterwood back in the Two Rivers, where Min and Elayne invite him for a quiet swim before stripping in front of him. He turns around and spots Egwene with an expression of hurt on her face. Rand chases Egwene as he flees Min and Elayne, but stops when the other two ask him to come back. He stands frozen, unable to decide what he wants.

Rand awakes and ponders how to handle his relationship with Egwene which he realizes must be at an end. Small sounds in the room make him realize that he is not alone. He channels through the sickening taint on saidin a power-wrought sword. But the intruder is not a thief trying to steal Callandor, not an assassin trying to kill the Dragon Reborn, but Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron, First of Mayene, dressed in a white silk robe that emphasized more than it hid. Berelain tries repeatedly to seduce Rand and he tries to dismiss her, but each of his excuses is rebuffed until he finally pushes her back by creating a wall of Air between them. He tells her to return to Mayene and promises that Tear will trouble the city-state no further.

A cock crows, and Berelain's attention makes Rand look behind him. He sees his reflection in one of the mirrors in the room step out to attack him. He briefly thinks that he has gone mad already, but Berelain saw it also. Other reflections begin to step out of other mirrors and Rand destroys the mirrors with the Power, but two other reflections escape. He engages the three living reflections in a sword fight and takes many wounds. His old wound from the Battle of Falme breaks open again. He inflicts wounds on the reflections but they do not seem to be slowed by them. As he rolls across the bed to try to catch his breath, a small reflection on the bed stabs him in the hand with a tiny sword; he then sees countless other miniature reflections moving out of the shattered fragments of mirrors. The stabbing seems to make him weaker and his hand begins to grow numb and cold. He instinctively fills himself with saidin and its associated heat surges within him which makes his hand feel better; suddenly the small reflection bursts like a bubble and the other small reflections are also no more. He feels stronger with the disappearance of each reflection, as if he is absorbing their vitality back into him.

He ponders the nature of the reflections and gets an idea. He makes his sword disappear which causes the reflections to lose theirs. The reflections, confused, jump on him and their touch makes him feel cold and numb as the small reflection had. The reflections seem to be becoming more lifelike as his vitality ebbs away into them. He wrestles with them and tries to recall what he did before with the smaller reflections; with the help of saidin, he begins to absorb them, first one then the other two at once. Rand assumes this was an attack from one of the Forsaken and strides over to take Callandor from its stand. Berelain is thoroughly shaken and seems unsure if the real Rand survived. She apologizes deeply and swears on her mother's name that she will not bother him again; he dismisses her with instructions not to tell anyone what happened. Weary to the bone, Rand sits with the Sword That Is Not a Sword and rests for a moment.





Chapter 3. Reflection 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara




Perrin and Faile make their way through the Stone of Tear to confront Rand about a bizarre event during which they were assaulted by Perrin's axe. On their way they meet High Lord Torean Andiama, who angers Perrin with his tone and the way he looks at Faile. Perrin and Faile proceed to bicker over his reaction to Torean's conversation with them. They see Berelain bolting down the hall where Torean grabs her and they have a speedy conversation. Faile mistakes why Perrin stares at Berelain but what he noticed was her scent of fear and panic. Faile decides to return to bed and let Perrin go meet the Dragon on his own, but not before being amused by his misunderstanding of the situation.

Perrin makes his way to Rand's room, passing the Defenders of the Stone and then Rand's real guards, the Maidens of the Spear. Bain and Chiad give Perrin trouble as he tries to enter Rand's room, threatening him with their spears. Perrin gently but firmly picks up Bain and moves her out of his way, which earns the respect of the two Aiel. They suggest that he play Maidens' Kiss, but Perrin declines and they let him enter.

Perrin is greatly alarmed by Rand's appearance and shouts for one of the Maidens to get Moiraine. Rand tells Perrin to shut the door. Perrin tears a strip from a linen sheet and uses it to apply pressure to the wound on Rand's side, the one from Falme. Perrin asks Rand what he tried to do and Rand responds that it must have been an attack from one of the Forsaken. They both worry over Mat and guess at his whereabouts.

Rhuarc enters telling Rand that rumors of what happened are starting to surface. Following on Rhuarc's heels is Moiraine, who demands to hear what has happened; her Warder Lan Mandragoran enters behind her. Silent sparks erupt between the two warriors but Lan cracks a joke about Rand making a mess while shaving which amuses Rhuarc and eases the tension.

As Moiraine prepares to Heal Rand, she asks him to hold saidin so that it can be used to aid in the Healing, but he is unable to grasp the Void. The Aes Sedai Heals him anyway but expresses concern that the wound at his side still refuses to respond.  Rand believes that it will be the wound that kills him.



That is the one that will kill me, isn't it? His blood on the rocks of Shayol Ghul, washing away the Shadow, sacrifice for men's salvation. -RandYou read to much, and understand too little. -MoiraineHe is only trying to find his way. No man likes to run forward blindly when he knows there is a cliff somewhere ahead. -Lan


Moiraine tries to send Rand to another bedchamber to rest, but Rand refuses to leave. He is tired of being chased around by his enemies. Rand explains uneasily what happened to him, and hypothesizes that one of the Forsaken attempted to murder him, possibly Sammael. Moiraine says it is the Dark One reaching out, creating bubbles of evil.

Moiraine then tries to talk Rand into making a decision, saying that the Tairen's fear of him will only last so long before they try plotting against him. Rand says for her not to rush him, before dismissing the group and telling Perrin that they will speak tomorrow.

Perrin and Rhuarc discuss the similarities between the Dragon Reborn and He Who Comes With Dawn, and the two related prophecies. Rhuarc mentions that the Aiel prophecy is different and that Rand still has to prove himself, and Rand and Rand alone will know what to do. Should Rand fail to meet the Aiel prophecy, they would leave to continue their search. Rhuarc bids Perrin a good night. After Rhuarc leaves Perrin studies the Tairen officer's face and feels that it won't be safe in the Stone of Tear should the Aiel leave. So he heads to his room to convince Faile to get away from this dangerous and volatile situation.





Chapter 4. Strings 






Point of view: Thom Merrilin


Thom Merrilin completes the forging of a letter in the hand of High Lord Carleon. The letter, intended to be found by High Lord Tedosian, is part of an intricate plot to weaken one of Rand's political enemies, the High Lady Alteima and reads "Be wary. Your husband suspects."





Upon hearing a knock on the door, Thom quickly hides all of his forgery supplies and inspects his room for any signs of incriminating evidence before opening the door. Answering the door, Thom is surprised to see Mat. Mat does not seem like his usual self to Thom, with no joke about his shabby room nor the mischievous twinkle in his eye. Thom tries to entice Mat into a game of stones, but Mat declines, instead asking Thom if anything happened recently.

Mat tells the story of how the playing cards came to life and attacked him. He is convinced that the attack was caused by Rand and he tells Thom that he has been thinking about leaving Tear immediately.

Thom ponders why he hasn't left yet as well. The thought of leaving Rand in the hands of Moiraine to help him manage the High Lords of Tear troubles him. He thinks himself a fool for remaining involved with Rand just because of an event that happened fifteen years ago. Shaking loose of the past, Thom tells Mat that Mat has been trying to leave Tear since he arrived. Mat tries to convince Thom to leave with him, to go a place where the Dragon Reborn and the Dark One are still gleemen stories; a place where no one will be trying to kill them. When prodded by Thom again, Mat explains that the Aes Sedai has him watched. He also speaks of some of the women he's run into, and the gold that can be made with gambling, using them as excuses for remaining. Every time Mat is close to leaving he finds some reason to stay one more day, he says. Thom believes that Mat is compelled to stay by Rand's ta'veren nature, but refrains from telling Mat that after the boy threatens to leave the room should that word be mentioned.

Thom tells Mat that he would normally advise one with such troubles as him to ask an Aes Sedai for help, but Mat obviously cannot ask Moiraine in this case. Thom privately thinks that he would not take his own advice. He suggests Mat ask Nynaeve instead, since she was his Wisdom after all. Mat says Nynaeve will just lecture him about drinking and gambling and then complains about the holes in his memory. Thom does not know who could possibly help with that.

Angered by the discussion, Mat makes up his mind to leave immediately. Thom convinces him to wait until morning, and gets Mat to play a game of stones with him. While setting up the game, Thom sees that Mat is already focused on stones, seemingly diverted from his previous furor to leave.





Chapter 5. Questioners 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere


Egwene expresses her impatience with whatever is delaying Moiraine from returning. She was supposed to be here but left with Elayne immediately after receiving a message delivered by Careen. Egwene asks Aviendha about it but Aviendha did not hear the message. She feels uncomfortable about deceiving Aviendha with their claim that they were full Aes Sedai. They had let the Tairens believe that they were all Aes Sedai to have strength in numbers and Egwene cannot reveal the truth to Aviendha in order to keep the secret safe. Moiraine ordered Aviendha to accompany them, perhaps to keep them safe.





Nynaeve's mutterings about Tanchico bring Egwene back to the task at hand, the questioning of two Black Ajah prisoners; Joiya Byir, formerly of the Gray Ajah, and Amico Nagoyin, who was stilled. Amico continues to tell them that they should go to Tanchico after overhearing Liandrin speak to Temaile of something able to control the Dragon Reborn, with some risk to the controller as well. Nynaeve demands to know the names of more Black Ajah members, but Amico only knew a few of the Darkfriend Sisters.

Nynaeve's impatience gets the better of her as she demands that they speak to the other prisoner, but Egwene is annoyed at getting cut off. The two women stare at each other for a while until Amico obediently turns to face the wall and waits to be bound. Before questioning the other prisoner, Aviendha comments that Amico no longer shows the agelessness that most Aes Sedai show in their faces. Aviendha asks whether this is a product of being stilled and Egwene agrees that it could be.

Egwene releases Joiya who tries to convince them that she has repented and returned to the Light. Egwene does not believe her, and postulates that the oaths a Black Sister swears must somehow override the Oath Rod and the Three Oaths. She orders the prisoner to give her tale once more, but worded differently in an attempt to catch her in a lie. Joiya recalls a plot to rescue Mazrim Taim, the false Dragon, and wreak havoc upon the land while posing as Rand al'Thor. The nations would band together to destroy the Dragon and the Dark One will break free with no chosen one to fight him at Tarmon Gai'don.

While deciding which one to believe, the door bangs open to reveal Moiraine, her prized Aes Sedai serenity nowhere to be found. Elayne follows her in, frowning thoughtfully.



Unanswered Questions[]


How was Amico stilled? Was it by Egwene's shield in Tel'aran'rhiod? Was it by Nynaeve when she punched her? A combination of both?




Chapter 6. Doorways 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand




Moiraine's anger at Rand's stubbornness almost includes the trio of Accepted until she realizes that the Black Ajah Sisters are free. After composing herself, Moiraine tells Joiya Byir that arrangements have been made to transport her and Amico Nagoyin to Tar Valon for trial at the Traitors' Court in four days. These will be their final days to confess what they wish as treatment will be much harsher at the Tower. The two Black Ajah Sisters are clearly afraid of Moiraine. Moiraine sends Aviendha to fetch the Defenders outside and Aviendha takes the opportunity to escape the Aes Sedai's foul mood. Moiraine discusses with the captain the special orders for the guards in charge of the confinement; it is clear the Defenders do not know that the prisoners are Aes Sedai. She dismisses them then turns to speak with the Accepted.

Nynaeve berates Moiraine for her lack of participation in the questioning of the Darkfriends, but the Aes Sedai coolly puts her in her place. The Amyrlin may have charged them with hunting the Black Ajah, but Moiraine is Aes Sedai and still holds authority over them. She then focuses on Elayne, ordering her to pull herself together. The Daughter-Heir informs everyone that Berelain was in Rand's chambers. Moiraine, believing that the news will hurt Egwene, chides Elayne for her lack of discretion. Egwene and Elayne have a brief whispered conversation in which Egwene wishes Elayne well in her relationship with Rand and they share a laugh at how Moiraine finally got something wrong.

Nynaeve tries to the bring the conversation back to something more important than men. She is still angry that Moiraine is sending the two Black Ajah away when they are not satisfied with the interrogation, as they cannot ascertain the truthfulness of the information that they have been given. Elayne decides to divert Nynaeve's anger by bringing up why they were away from the interrogation for so long and the Aes Sedai speaks of how Rand almost died to a bubble of evil.

Egwene brings the conversation back to the beginning when Moiraine complained about Rand's stubbornness and Moiraine tells the trio that Rand must move, but instead he sits. She shares her plan to have him invade Illian and fight Sammael. The Accepted all balk until realization dawns for Elayne. Merciless, Moiraine forces Elayne to explain her rationale to the others. Elayne explains that even if Rand does not attack Sammael, other Forsaken will likely set themselves up as rulers in other countries and attack him, so war is inevitable. Moiraine knows Elayne did not say all that she has deduced, so Moiraine continues for her and explains that in attacking Tear's centuries-old enemy in Illian, Rand will affirm his hold on Tear and Illian will be subjugated as well. After news of such a great victory spreads, the chaos in Arad Doman and Tarabon will likely subside and they will declare for him as well; with such a strong coalition, he will gain time to fully learn his abilities.

Moiraine's frustration returns as she explains how, instead of acting so that he maintains the upper hand, the Dragon sits and reads the Prophecies of the Dragon for himself. She recalls a verse from the Prophecies and tries to squeeze the meaning to match her plans to have Rand invade Illian. Moiraine is growing desperate, and after some prodding, she tells the trio of a dangerous backup plan to enter the twisted redstone doorframe to have her questions answered should Rand continue his inaction. She explains the dangers after Egwene foolishly says that they could use the answers to solve their dilemma regarding the Black Ajah plans.

Nynaeve questions how Moiraine knows so much about this ter'angreal and Moiraine explains that it used to be owned by the Firsts of Mayene until it was foolishly gifted to Tear by the First Halvar about three hundred years ago. The Firsts had allowed the Tower to examine and experiment with it, although their friendly relations with the Aes Sedai are not known openly as Tear has a great dislike for Aes Sedai. Moiraine tells them that they should focus on Tanchico since she already sent three pigeons to the Amyrlin explaining the plot to free Mazrim Taim.

After the Aes Sedai's exit, the trio turns their focus back to Rand. Egwene explains that she will tell Rand that she will not marry him. Nynaeve questions Elayne and Elayne affirms that she loves Rand and wishes to marry him. Egwene and Elayne discuss how to pull him away from Berelain. Nynaeve then asks what Elayne will do when they need to leave Tear and be away from Rand; Elayne immediately confirms that she will continue their hunt for the Black Ajah.





Chapter 7. Playing With Fire 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere




In the morning, Egwene and Elayne present themselves to the six Shae'en M'taal guarding Rand's rooms, claiming that they need to check on his wounds. Elayne is dressed beautifully with sapphires borrowed from Aviendha as part of their plan for Rand. Gaul tells them to be careful as Rand has already taken his temper out on a group of High Lords, but lets them go in.





They enter and Egwene notices little evidence of last night's attack aside from the lack of mirrors and a few scorch marks on the wall. Books lay cluttered everywhere while Callandor sparkles atop a gaudy stand. Rand sits in a chair with a book in hand. He rises with a scowl upon their entry but changes his expression upon recognizing them. Egwene notices the hardness in his face, the change in his movements; a little like Lan and the Aiel. Suspicion at their appearance troubles the Dragon. He wonders why they are here, thinking that Moiraine means to use them to make him do what she wants.

The two tell him that they are here to help him. Rand asks if the women can help keep the High Lords in line, or with nightmares, or with the Old Tongue. As Rand looks for a book, Egwene says she cannot help with that and shoots a look to Elayne to tell her to say the same. Egwene tells him that they are here to help him with the One Power, with channeling. Rand becomes suspicious again, knowing that a woman using saidar cannot teach a man how to wield saidin any more than a bird can teach a fish to fly. He asks them again if this is all part of some plot from Moiraine. He puts on a coat, ready to leave for another meeting with High Lords until Elayne speaks to him earnestly. Rand agrees to stay and try to learn with them.

Egwene embraces saidar and asks Rand if he sees or feels anything. She claims that she is now stronger than Moiraine. She channels flows of Air and Water and Spirit, the powers for Healing, and touches Rand's old wound from Falme. Her stomach churns as she feels as if all the darkness in the world had gathered at his side. When Elayne embraces the True Source, Rand shivers and rubs at goosebumps. They discover that Rand can tell when a woman embraces the Source by this. Egwene urges, with slight trepidation, Rand to embrace the male half of the Source, and is baffled that she cannot tell that he has done as asked. Rand pinches their bottoms for an answer and earns a bigger pinch in rebuke from Elayne.

After further prompting, Rand uses the Power again, lifting them off the ground and shielding them from saidar. Then he does many things at once, making the table legs dance, filling the hearth with fire, melting a sculpture into silver and gold threads. Rand gets angry at touching the taint on saidin and loses control; the tables burst into flames and the mattress explodes into a pile of feathers. Rand notices the damage and composes himself. The shield on the duo vanishes and Rand apologizes, claiming that it runs wild sometimes. Rand jokes that he has now destroyed two mattresses in two days which may anger the majhere. Egwene realizes that for all the accolades of her strength in the Power, she cannot compete with Rand, who easily had woven a dozen different weaves at the same time without tiring.

They sit down and discuss how Rand embraces saidin. The discussion teaches Egwene the similarities and differences between saidin and saidar. Egwene finally realizes that the two are too different for them to help Rand and lets it go. Rand dismisses them, claiming a meeting with the High Lords over taxes and noting that they have Darkfriends to question.

Before leaving, Egwene admits that she cannot marry Rand. Rand claims that he understands, no woman would want to marry the Dragon Reborn. Egwene clarifies her statement, shouting that she does not love him romantically, only as a brother. Rand's face changes from hurt to relief, saying that he had changed as well. Yet Egwene believes that he is simply hiding the hurt as she leaves him ready for Elayne to pick up.





Chapter 8. Hard Heads 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand Setting: Rand's chambers in the Stone of Tear




Rand is startled to discover that Elayne did not depart with Egwene and stammers a bit. Rand offers Elayne a flower but cannot summon saidin to turn a bundle of feathers into one. He gives her a bundle of cloth instead and Elayne graciously accepts, taking the feathers as well because he had wanted them to be a flower. Elayne nervously tells Rand how she feels about him and he nervously does the same. She asks him to kiss her and it lasts a long time. She is determined not to let Berelain have him. She wonders if Min had a viewing about who Rand would choose. Rand apologizes again for scaring them. She asks if he is sorry about the pinch, but he refuses to apologize for that saying they deserved it. For being honest she soothes his pinch, about the most she can do with Healing.

Gaul knocks on the door then enters announcing the High Lords. They enter and Elayne makes her departure. Seeing Rand among the High Lords she realizes that he has a commanding presence much like Gareth Bryne. She leaves thinking that she has four days left to question Amico and Joiya and four days left to make Rand hers and not Berelain's.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor Setting: Rand's chambers in the Stone of Tear




Rand muses about Elayne while the High Lords talk. He likes both Elayne and Min and is confused about his feelings. Sunamon Haellin brings his attention back to the meeting while the other High Lords ignore the damage done to his chambers. Rand notes how Carleon and Tedosian never meet each other's eye, confirming the suspicions from Thom's timely note. Rand orders them to lower taxes. Meilan immediately objects at the bad precedent.

Rand stands in front of Callandor in order to remind them of who and what he was. Thoughts about the women and his plans hidden within three books keep taking his focus off the High Lords. The conversation turns to the excess grain stockpiled in Tear. Rand uses his understanding of dealings between the Watch Hill, Deven Ride, and Emond's Field during hardship and orders the High Lords to offer the grain to Illian or Altara with help from Mayene ships in return for leaving the small nation alone as he promised. Tedosian strenuously objects. He quells further opposition with his temper and begins to bend the High Lords to do his bidding.



Point of view: Egwene al'Vere Setting: The hallways of the Stone of Tear




Egwene traverses the halls while thinking of Joiya and Amico when Mat appears and walks with her. He seems uncharacteristically troubled as servants and High Lords pass them by. She asks him about the troubles from last night and Mat laughs off the danger. She notes that she and Nynaeve have not seen him in a while. While Mat silently flirts with a servant at least ten years his senior, he claims that he's been busy playing cards, reminding her that the last time he saw them, they tied him up with the One Power and stole from him; aside from that, they are always with Elayne and Moiraine. Egwene retorts that they were only taking back the letter from the Amyrlin that they had given him.

Finally, Mat tells her that he needs some advice about what comes next and the holes in his memory. She suggests Moiraine but Mat instantly refuses the help from an Aes Sedai. She finally tells him of the ter'angreal, the twisted redstone doorframe and the answers you can receive on the other side. Mat asks Egwene whether she wishes all of this never happened and they were still at home, and Egwene quickly says no and Mat agrees. Egwene asks him to promise not go into the ter'angreal without asking Moiraine for permission first, but Mat only promises not to go in unless his life depends on it.





Chapter 9. Decisions 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon


Mat attempts to find anyone in the Stone who will still want to dice or play cards with him. But for three days the lords ignore him or make excuses. The maids even make excuses or just tell him that it is not safe to be alone with him. Thom all but disappears on him and Perrin seems involved with his own problems, but Moiraine always seems to be where he is. He visits the Great Holding once, but turns away, muttering about the foolishness of his actions. Whatever holds him against leaving doesn't stop him from going to the Maule, the port district, or the inns in the Chalm.



Point of view: Perrin Aybara


Perrin also visits taverns, sometimes crossing paths with Mat, but he doesn't engage his friend. Instead, he seeks something that will catch Faile's interest so she will leave Tear, and the danger that comes with being near him. Old rumors of the Seanchan and the Horn of Valere have reached Tear, each telling more preposterous than the last. He also hears of riots in Ghealdan, outbreaks of mass madness in Illian, famine in Cairhien, and Trolloc raids increasing in the Borderlands. These situations are all too dangerous to send Faile into so he dismisses them. The guilt of hiding his comings and goings from Faile start to burden him, but he continues the effort of sending her away before he gets her killed.



Point of view: Egwene al'Vere


Egwene and Nynaeve spend more time interrogating Joiya and Amico without making any progress on finding the truth behind the supposed Black Ajah plots to free Mazrim Taim and to bind the Dragon Reborn with some device in Tanchico. Amico seems fearful and eager to please while Joiya is only calm and mocking. No messages have come from Tar Valon in response to Moiraine's pigeons about Mazrim Taim. Egwene and Aviendha spend more time with one another, as Nynaeve is too busy spending time with Lan while Elayne continues pursuing Rand. Aviendha has a drastically different worldview; she believes Elayne should simply challenge Berelain to a duel and kill her, or Egwene could do it for her. Aviendha is also shocked to find Egwene with her body submerged in a bathtub full of water, as the Aiel would never waste water in such a fashion.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand


Elayne spends three days improving her relationship with Rand. The Maidens cooperate with her, letting her know when Rand is alone. He even asks her advice in the governing of a nation, and often even takes that advice, making her love him all the more. She enjoys these days immensely but knows they cannot last.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor




Rand continues making decrees to the High Lords. He senses their boldness and devises a way to use them so they won't have the time to plot his assassination. He refuses to start a war, regardless of Moiraine's demands. Forming those plans took the bulk of his days, that and long walks with Elayne. He conducts a meeting with Meilan Mendiana and Sunamon Haellin about his treaty with Mayene and the First, Berelain. Their actions spark his temper and he burns the treaty in Meilan's hands with saidin, promising to hang the two of them if they do not obey him and meet with Berelain to draft a fair treaty. Alone, he studies the herons on his palms, quoting the prophecies that predicted them, and muses about the dragons that he must bear that the same prophecy predicts and wondering what they might be.





A voice interrupts his thoughts. He spins toward a young woman with dark hair, the Lady Selene. She comments about how much harder he has become, and that she will claim him as her own. She admits that she is Lanfear, one of the Chosen. At first, Rand thinks it a poor joke until he cannot reach the True Source through her shield. He backs toward Callandor and hits a wall of Air blocking him from the sword. She shows him what she claims is her true appearance, and Rand marvels how she can be older, yet more beautiful than Selene. He asks if she will kill him. She laughs, admitting that she wants him for her own. Rand responds that she actually loves power, shocking them both.

Lanfear regains her confidence and lays out her plans for him, to give him a teacher before the other Chosen strike. She says that Asmodean is willing to teach him. She claims that the Chosen fear that the Great Lord of the Dark will place Rand higher than them. Rand notices a man in drab clothing slipping through the doors with a knife in his hands. By instinct, Rand pushes Lanfear behind him and finds his shield gone as he kills the Gray Man with his flaming sword. He questions why Lanfear would bother sending a Gray Man to kill him but she does not use the Soulless and says it must have been another Chosen. Rand then remembers the Aiel guards outside who would not have let a Gray Man slip past them, and questions Lanfear about them. She says that she did not do anything to them and warns him to stay inside the room for safety. He leaves Lanfear and steps out into madness.





Chapter 10. The Stone Stands 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor


Rand leaves Lanfear and sees his six Aiel guards dead in the hallway along with three Gray Men. The Aiel had clearly been surprised before retaliating, landing multiple spears in each of the dead Gray Men. Defenders of the Stone fight for their lives against Shadowspawn in the anteroom. A gong of alarm alerts the inhabitants of the Stone of Tear that they are under attack. Rand taunts a Fade ripping the face from one of the guards and leaps to face it, trying to rally the fleeing Defenders to his side. The Myrddraal's Thakan'dar forged blade clashes with Rand's channeled sword, lights flashing whenever the blades collide. Rand can only parry attacks for a while until he gets an opening and cleaves the Fade's sword and face in two. He urges the Tairen guards to follow him deeper into the Stone, leaving the headless Fade to thrash blindly.

The Defenders hesitantly follow Rand's lead and eventually shout his name in respect. His group travels deeper and deeper into the Stone where Rand engages Shadowspawn. His companions change from Tairen to Aiel to him alone. Some of his followers fall, others break off into groups to fight. He sees Moiraine and Lan fighting with the One Power and sword. Lan takes a blow while saving Moiraine from an attack from behind but Rand cannot help as he is beset by a group of Trollocs; when he is free again, the two are nowhere to be seen. He sees Darkfriends more afraid of their Trolloc allies than the Defenders and Aiel, and the odd occurrence of Trolloc killing Trolloc.

Rand found himself alone against a trio of Trollocs feasting on a dead noblewoman. Rand kills the first with a sneak attack and uses Lizard in the Thornbush against the other two, but the first fallen Trolloc causes him to stumble and miss the second enemy. Before the surviving Trolloc can kill him, a fourth Trolloc kills it and leaves Rand alone. Further down the hall, a pair of Myrddraal duel. Rand starts to think that he has gone mad and this is all a hallucination.

Lanfear appears, berating Rand for the foolish risks he has taken thus far. She tells him that he could have destroyed the Shadowspawn easily but instead he labors with a sword; she tells him to come with her to learn. She denies aiding him when he confronts her about the Trolloc saving his life. Rand refuses her offer, slamming her against the wall with a weave of Air. He tries to remember how he shielded Egwene and Elayne but cannot. Lanfear sends him flying across the air with the same weave and taunts him about Callandor. Now that it is free, anyone can claim the sword and any male channeler can use it, such as Sammael if he has come to the Stone. Rand worries about Sammael taking the sa'angreal and tries in vain to break free of the trap until Lanfear frees him. She then destroys his previous weave holding her with little effort. She mocks him, implying that he would not stand a chance if she truly chose to fight. She reminds him of Callandor again and Rand races to his rooms, cutting through any Shadowspawn in his way. He sees Perrin and Faile fighting back to back as he runs.





Rand finds the sword safe and pulls on saidin through the Sword That Is Not a Sword. The Power, and the taint, magnifies through the blade. He dispatches Shadowspawn without thought as he walks back into the anteroom. He goes through the Stone, killing any Shadowspawn in sight with Fire but realizes it is too slow, as people are still dying everywhere. He must do more, kill all of them at once. He stops and draws in more Power, as much as he can hold. Rand creates a construct of lightning that races throughout the Stone and kills all the Shadowspawn with lightning strikes.

As the channeled construct dissipates, Rand sees Moiraine, looking battered and shocked at his display of power. She halts her Warder from checking on Rand, seemingly afraid. She asks if he is well, but Rand ignores her when he notices a girl sprawled on the floor with blood across her dress. Rand despairs that he did not channel his attack earlier and save the child. Buffeted by the Power, he feels he can do anything while holding Callandor and he tries to resurrect the child, tries to make the child breathe and have her heart beat again. Moiraine tells him to stop, as Death cannot be Healed and he is not the Creator. Rand looks again at the lifeless eyes of the dead child and knows Moiraine speaks true; he gives up and howls in sadness.

Rand withdraws his flows from the corpse and releases saidin. Rand asks after the others, his friends, wondering if he was too late to save them. Moiraine assures him that they are safe. He is still angry at himself, angry that he delayed moving so that he could spend three days with Elayne while she remained in Tear. Still, the three days were not spent in vain as he had gained knowledge reading during them, which will be useful if he can put the pieces together. 

He queries about how the Trollocs got into the Stone. Lan breaks down a plot that had grain barges coming downriver without anyone noticing them - barges filled to the brim with Shadowspawn. Thirty covered wagons entering Tear from the countryside were also filled with Shadowspawn, supposedly belongings from a lord returning to the Stone. Now that it is all over, strength leaves Rand, and he almost collapses if not for Lan catching him. Moiraine partially Heals him, leaving the fatigue so he can sleep. Rand confesses that Lanfear came to see him but he believes her that she was not behind the attack. Moiraine is not surprised at the news, as it is well known that she loved Lews Therin Telamon. She warns Rand that he does not yet possess the skill to defeat her unaided, and that Lanfear won't kill Rand without trying to win Lews Therin back. 

Rand promises to tell everyone his plans tomorrow. His reading has been helpful and even Lanfear unknowingly gave him a piece of the puzzle on what he must do.





Chapter 11. What Lies Hidden 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene goes to sleep without the twisted stone ring to see what she can learn about Tanchico and to see if she can enter the World of Dreams without the ring. She, Elayne and Nynaeve plan to hunt the Black Ajah Sisters and the best trail they have leads to Tanchico. Aviendha is also present and well armed after the attack on the Stone earlier in the day. Egwene uses an old book with an engraving of the Panarch's Palace as a focus for where she wishes to go. They have recovered two other dream ter'angreal from Amico and Joiya, although those two are not as powerful and require channeling to work. The Black Ajah likely have another eleven of them and Egwene could run into them in Tel'aran'rhiod, so she will have to be very careful. Egwene marks the candle and tells the others to wake her when it has burned down to that point, setting a time limit for her foray into Tel'aran'rhiod.

Egwene has been having more dreams but she does not know what any of them mean:



Rand as tall as a mountain, walking through cities, crushing buildings, people screaming like ants.
Rand in chains and screaming.
Rand building a wall with him on one side and her on the other.
Aiel fighting and killing each other and throwing away their weapons.
Mat wrestling with a Seanchan woman who tied an invisible leash to him.
A wolf that was Perrin fighting a man whose face kept changing.
Galad wrapping himself in white.
Gawyn with his eyes full of pain and hatred.
Marin al'Vere weeping.


Egwene appears in the palace right next to a large skeleton of a huge animal. As she walks around the museum she sees an angreal and next to it a finely jointed collar with two bracelets attached by chains. She feels darkness and pain associated with the collar. She also finds a broken figurine that painfully causes power to surge between it and her, leaving her queasy.

As she begins to explore Tanchico, she wishes she had someone to teach her the World of Dreams, such as the Aiel Wise Ones. She unwittingly finds herself in the Aiel Waste where a woman dressed as a Maiden is stalking a boar while a lion watches from a crevice. The woman notices Egwene so Egwene wills herself back to the museum.

She returns to searching for indications of the Black Ajah's presence, but doesn't know what to look for and because her time is limited, she begins running through Tanchico, looking into the doorways of shops, inns and houses. Another idle thought about the Wise Ones sends her immediately back to the Waste and she is almost trampled by the boar-like creature. The Aiel woman is there still with her spear raised. Egwene changes her clothing to cadin'sor to try and placate or distract the woman, but instead this aggravates the Aiel woman who uses the mechanics of Tel'aran'rhiod to change Egwene to be naked. Egwene has to draw saidar to change back into her normal clothes and make the Aiel woman naked. Taking advantage of the Aiel woman's surprise, Egwene returns to Tanchico, glimpsing a woman resembling Birgitte Silverbow just before she closed her eyes.

Egwene spies a woman dreaming of flying and decides to do the same. She quickly gains confidence flying over the city, but abruptly realizes that if the Black Ajah is there they might see her, and drops down to fly slower near the ground. She is startled by a woman standing in the street who orders her to stop flying. She is the same woman from before who had been dressed as a Maiden, only now she appears as an older woman, tall, and slim, with white hair held by a folded scarf, a loose white blouse, bulky brown skirt, brown shawl, and many necklaces and bracelets. But with the same sharp blue eyes and voice. 

She introduces herself as Amys of the Nine Valleys sept of the Taardad Aiel. and Egwene realizes she is a Wise One. Egwene introduces herself as an Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah (though she is still only Accepted), and explains her task. Amys mentions a darkness, an evil, present in the city, but is unable to give her any information about the Black Ajah. She tells Egwene to come to the Waste, at Cold Rocks Hold, to learn. Amys is currently at Rhuidean, but says she will return before Egwene arrives. Suddenly Egwene is pulled out of the dream.





Chapter 12. Tanchico or the Tower 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand


Elayne, Nynaeve and Aviendha are relieved when Egwene awakens from Tel'aran'rhiod, as they had been unable to wake her when the time came. Nynaeve was about to empty a pitcher of water on her. Egwene tells them how the Wise One Amys told her to come to Cold Rocks Hold in the Aiel Waste to learn. Although agitated, Aviendha explains that Amys was once Far Dareis Mai until she gave up the spear to go to Rhuidean, and that she is Rhuarc's wife as well as sister-wife to Lian (who is Aviendha's sister-mother). This confuses the girls and shocks them when they finally understand that Rhuarc has two wives. Egwene dismisses Aviendha's suggestion of her and Elayne becoming sister-wives to Rand, but Elayne is reminded of Min's viewing about her sharing her husband with two other women. Egwene further explains that Amys sensed an evil in Tanchico, which could possibly be the Black Ajah.

Egwene has decided that she needs to go to the Waste to seek Amys, with Aviendha as her guide, and offers to leave the twisted stone ring with the other two girls so they can meet in Tel'aran'rhiod in the Stone of Tear to teach them what she learns. Elayne and then Nynaeve agree she must go, and that they will travel to Tanchico. Aviendha has no chance to voice her opinion before Moiraine enters and announces that Joiya and Amico are dead, apparently killed by something of the Shadow during the Trolloc attack on the Stone. The prison guards stayed at their posts during the attack and saw nothing, but afterwards the women were found with their throats cut after their tongues had been nailed to their cell doors.

Nynaeve informs Moiraine that she and Elayne will go to Tanchico by ship while Egwene and Aviendha go to Cold Rocks hold in the Waste. Aviendha declines, saying a different Maiden can escort Egwene while making excuses as to why she should instead go with Elayne and Nynaeve. But Moiraine takes out a letter she had just received from Wise Ones Amys, Bair, Melaine and Seana. The letter is addressed to her in the Stone and was written a month ago, before the party had even reached Tear. Aviendha says the named Wise Ones are all Dreamwalkers and Moiraine muses that may be why they knew to send this letter. The Wise Ones say that Aviendha must come to Chaendaer, above Rhuidean, without delay. Aviendha angrily protests that she is Far Dareis Mai and will go to Tanchico if she wishes, but Moiraine tells her that, following the letter's instructions, she had showed the letter to Rhuarc. After Aviendha stalks out of the room angrily, Moiraine refuses to reveal why the Wise Ones wanted Aviendha as it is not their business.

Moiraine tells the girls that there is an Atha'an Miere ship at the docks in the Maule in Tear which would be ideal for a fast voyage to Tanchico. Elayne ponders what Rand will do when she tells him she is leaving for Tanchico.





Chapter 13. Rumors 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon


Mat is sitting with an untouched drink in a tavern in the Maule of Tear, thoughts heavy with the evening's events. During the Trolloc attack on the Stone, he killed a Gray Man that had tried to assassinate him. Then shortly after, a Myrddraal that called him "Hornsounder" was about to kill him when a dozen Trollocs suddenly attacked and killed the Fade and left again. He still wants to escape Tear, but feels pulled back to the Stone. He subconsciously draws a sketch of a doorway using a finger wet with wine.

He hears someone mention the Two Rivers and questions a merchant who explains Whitecloaks are in the Two Rivers, supposedly hunting the Dragon Reborn as well as a Darkfriend with yellow eyes. Leaving the merchant with an Andoran gold crown, Mat runs to Perrin's room to give him the news but Perrin has heard already and is packing to leave. Perrin had told Rand, who had replied mysteriously, "He said he'd do it. He said he would. I should have believed him." Rand told Perrin that he had to do "what they don't expect," meaning that he cannot return to the Two Rivers. Mat tries to say he will go with Perrin but he can't even get the words out. Rand's ta'veren effect is keeping Mat close, while Perrin does not have the same problem. Mat asks Perrin whether he feels any reasons to stay, and Perrin says he does - but he admits it is the ta'veren effect and that seems to allow him to overcome it. Mat refuses to admit it.

Mat asks why Perrin has to return since nobody in the Two Rivers will know anything about a man with golden eyes, and Perrin says that the Whitecloaks know his name and thus will be able to find and threaten his family. They wish each other well and Mat asks Perrin to tell his parents that he is all right. Mat leaves, worrying about his family. He has trouble remembering his sisters' faces now, thanks to the holes in his memory.

Mat encounters Berelain heading in the other direction, and is angered when she ignores his best bow and greeting. She scrutinizes him then walks by with a murmured, "too much like me." Mat inwardly compares her haughtiness to Elayne's and instead thinks of a plump cook's helper by name of Dara. He realizes he is falling back into his normal routine again, all thoughts of leaving gone. He flips a coin, a Tar Valon mark, and it lands with the Flame of Tar Valon showing. He realizes what he must do and declaims the Aes Sedai and Rand for his predicament. This startles a passing servant and Mat gifts him the coin.





Chapter 14. Customs of Mayene 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara


Perrin is in his room, having just said goodbye to Mat. He is packed and ready to go to the Two Rivers with Loial in the morning. Berelain enters his room uninvited, catching him in the middle of changing shirts. Since Perrin is friends with Rand, Berelain asks him to relay the news that she will leave the next day for Godan, then to Mayene. When Perrin refuses to be her messenger, she reassesses him and invites him to visit Mayene to "make ornamental ironwork" for her bedchamber before he heads to the Two Rivers, though she clearly has other intentions. Perrin refuses her offer, but when Faile enters, Berelain deliberately flirts with him one last time and tells him that she always gets what she wants before leaving. Perrin is uneasy when Faile calmly doesn't mention Berelain. 

Faile approaches Perrin with rumors of Whitecloaks spotted in the Two Rivers. He shares his plan to get there via the Ways to arrive in days instead of weeks. Faile asks when "they" are leaving, but he says he's leaving without her. Finally, she explodes in anger about Berelain. Using the opportunity to push Faile away, Perrin pretends to show interest in Berelain causing Faile to storm out of the room. While his heart wants to pursue Faile, his sense of duty pushes him forward to likely execution by the Whitecloaks. His full plan includes sacrificing himself to appease the Whitecloaks and thus allow the Two Rivers to escape their wrath as well as keeping Faile away from that danger and witnessing his death.



Point of view: Faile Bashere


Faile stalks through the Stone of Tear and confronts Berelain in the hallway. She claims Perrin as hers and warns Berelain to stay away. Berelain dismisses her as a servant or farmgirl, which causes Faile to almost reveal her noble Saldaean heritage before she stops herself. Instead, she answers with a knife and a warning for Berelain to back off. Berelain overpowers her, disarms her, and mentions that the Firsts of Mayene are trained in close combat to defend against Tairen assassins.

Berelain continues to taunt Faile, vowing to take Perrin away from her and keep him as a pet for as long as it amuses her, Ogier's oath on it. Faile draws a second knife and advances to attack again but Rhuarc suddenly appears and disarms both of them. He twists Faile's arm when she attempts to punch him, and firmly orders Berelain to return to her room and stay there, with no breakfast in the morning. He sends Berelain running with a threat to repeat their first talk together. Rhuarc keeps Faile's two knives as her punishment and warns her of harsher penalties if she or Berelain do not keep the peace. After Rhuarc leaves, Faile is determined that Perrin will be hers by the time they see Berelain again.





Chapter 15. Into the Doorway 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon


Mat searches the basements of the Stone of Tear for the Great Holding which contains the twisted redstone doorframe. He promised Egwene not to use it without asking Moiraine unless his "life depended on it." He now feels he is at that point because he wishes to get away from Rand before he dies to the attacks from the Shadow or Rand going mad, but Rand's ta'veren pull is so strong that he can't leave. 

Mat had contemplated the three questions that he will ask the creatures beyond the doorway. Stepping through, he enters a round hall with lofty ceilings. Abruptly, a weird-looking man appears and questions Mat to verify that no light source, no iron, and no means to create music were brought. As Mat's eyes focus, he sees that the man is actually a creature with non-human, snake-like features, known as an Aelfinn.

Mat realizes something seems off as his Aelfinn guide leads him. The views through the windows do not make sense, appearing to show the same landscape from each side of the corridor. Finally, he arrives in a large room with two female and one male Aelfinn atop pillars.

Mat explains his dilemma; caught between the problem with the Whitecloaks in the Two Rivers and Rands ta'veren pull. He asks his first question, "Should I go home to help my people?" They study him for a bit, then respond that he must go to Rhuidean. A bell sounds and the Aelfinn discuss someone else entering, straining the palace that they are in. They rush Mat into finishing his questions.

Mat had planned to ask how to escape the Aes Sedai and recover his lost memories. But, their mysterious first answer distracts him into asking why he should go to Rhuidean. They respond that if he does not go to Rhuidean he will die. The bell tolls again as the floors shake.

Again, Mat does not ask what he had planned and asks why he will die if he does not go to Rhuidean. They respond that he will have sidestepped the thread of fate and so will be killed by those who do not wish his fate to be fulfilled. Again, the bell sounds and the entire room trembles; the Aelfinn are very anxious to have him leave.

He resists their attempts to physically remove him from the room and demands, "What fate? Burn your hearts, what fate?" The Aelfinn hurriedly respond to his fourth question: 



To marry the Daughter of the Nine Moons!
To die and live again, and live once more a part of what was!
To give up half the light of the world to save the world!


Then they name him son of battles, trickster, and gambler and reiterate that he must go to Rhuidean. They forcibly carry Mat through the halls as the bells toll twice more and the palace shakes even harder. Finally, they toss him back out the ter'angreal doorway. Mat tries to return, but now the doorway is merely an empty doorframe, infuriating him.

Mat reviews their answers unhappily, preferring to marry a pig over a noblewoman. As he argues with the doorway, Rand backs out of it, wielding his channeled sword. Mat reveals that he also entered the doorway just as Moiraine steps out of the doorway. Moiraine chastises them, explaining the dangers of two ta'veren entering the doorway at the same time. She asks how they learned about the doorway and threatens to punish the Accepted who told them. Rand cites the books, Treasures of the Stone and Dealings with the Territory of Mayene as his source. Mat successfully evades the question to keep Egwene out of trouble.

Moiraine asks them about their answers, but Rand refuses and shares only that he needed an interpreter. Mat then realizes that he understood the Aelfinn speaking Old Tongue, but lies to Moiraine that he didn't get to ask any questions. She explains that the Aelfinn probably feed on the visitor's sensations, experiences, and emotions in exchange for answers. The answers are only true in regards to the questioner's own future. Moiraine offers to help interpret their probably obscure answers, but when Rand challenges her to share her questions and answers in return, she says nothing. Finally, Mat asks why he couldn't go in again, but Moiraine doesn't know and leaves.

Mat asks Rand whether he really will leave Emond's Field at the Whitecloaks' mercy. Rand says he will have to let Perrin deal with it, for he has other things he must do or there will be much more trouble for everyone else. Mat thinks again about needing to go to Rhuidean.





Chapter 16. Leavetakings 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara


Perrin has a restless night either thinking of Faile being hurt by the things he said or by watching him mount a gallows. He heads to Loial's room while servants clean up after the battle with the Trollocs. Loial has been writing down the events of last night in his journal. Loial has received some bruises from fighting the Shadowspawn but says it is not serious enough to bother Moiraine. The room is filled with flowers. Faile steps out from among them and announces that Loial is a hero, having saved many children from the Shadowspawn. Perrin realizes Faile is trying to butter Loial up so that Loial will insist that Perrin allow her to travel with them.

Loial encountered another Ogier and found out he has been named a runaway and that his mother intends to have him married. Perrin uses his anxiety so that he will agree to go through the Ways. Loial agrees to the trip but then Faile interrupts to remind Loial that he made a promise to her. He swore to take Faile through the Ways to wherever she wanted before he took anyone else. Faile insists Perrin should ask to come with her, while Perrin refuses and says he will follow behind them. The two of them argue which exasperates Loial and he grumbles about human stubbornness. Perrin escapes the room just as Faile throws a book at him, hitting the closing door instead. Perrin despairs that Faile will be with him when the Whitecloaks hang him.

As Perrin heads back to his room Gaul stops him and asks to accompany Perrin to the Two Rivers. Rand mentioned it to him and Gaul decided to go. Gaul is taken aback when he learns that they will be traveling the Ways, but he still agrees to come.  



Point of view: Elayne Trakand


Elayne, Nynaeve and Egwene prepare for their separate journeys. Egwene will go to the Aiel Waste with Moiraine while the others go to Tanchico. Moiraine has provided a substantial amount of gold for their journey. Elayne is upset because Rand didn't ask her to stay with him as she'd expected.

Lan bursts in after learning Nynaeve is off to Tanchico instead of the White Tower. Lan is infuriated that Nynaeve intentionally misled him by implying travel to the White Tower, acting exactly as an Aes Sedai would. Nynaeve calmly faces him and insists that he accept their departure. Lan, wanting an explanation, asks Nynaeve, but she refuses to disclose anything unless Moiraine has already done so. Despite the conflict with his bond and oaths to Moiraine, Lan is prepared to accompany Nynaeve, shocking Elayne. Nynaeve shows him the letter from the Amyrlin that commands Lan to obey and remain silent. Lan reaches for Nynaeve and passionately kisses her.

After Lan leaves, Egwene asks why Nynaeve did not accept Lan's offer to come with them. Nynaeve says it would not be good for their relationship if he broke her oath to Moiraine; she will have to wait until Moiraine decides it is best to release him from his oath. They confirm the schedule that they have set to meet in Tel'aran'rhiod and say their final goodbyes, reminding each other to be careful. Seeing Nynaeve treat Lan with such a firm hand, Elayne resolves to write another letter to Rand, this time chastising him instead of the previous letter that expresses her love for him.





Chapter 17. Deceptions 






Point of view: Thomdril Merrilin


Thom uses his skills to boost morale in the Stone following the Trolloc attack. He spreads rumors about the High Lords to strengthen support for Rand among the commoners. Returning to his room, he discovers Moiraine looking through his belongings, including the plots he has been developing for Rand. He finds himself unexpectedly attracted to her. Moiraine channels to lessen his fatigue from the long night.

Moiraine says High Lord Carleon was accidentally shot by Tedosian, but Thom denies knowledge. Tedosian later falls ill, with his devoted wife, Alteima, caring for him. Thom asserts that such schemes are not a concern for a simple gleeman. Finally, Moiraine reveals she knows Thom's true identity as Thomdril Merrilin, also called the Gray Fox, the former Court Bard and lover of Queen Morgase, and expert player of the Game of Houses. She hints that he may be responsible for Taringail's death. Shocked by Moiraine's knowledge, Thom tries to regain control by discussing her background as a scion of the powerful House Damodred in Cairhien, and the niece of infamous King Laman. He highlights how Moiraine has aided the Dragon Reborn, even before confirming his true identity. These risks suggest powerful support within the White Tower, perhaps multiple Sitters in the Hall. Thom implies it would be best for Moiraine to leave his secrets alone lest her secrets be exposed as well.

Moiraine is unfazed however and Thom finally asks her what she wants. Moiraine asks Thom to go with Elayne and Nynaeve to Tanchico to help them survive. Thom, not wanting to leave Rand alone and at the mercy of Moiraine's manipulations, declines. Moiraine flatly guarantees that he will leave Tanchico alive and that she will see him again, and Thom knows that she must know this for certain due to the First Oath. Thom presses her on why he would want to go to Tanchico and Moiraine suggests that he would want to protect Elayne. Finally, Moiraine adds that she will reveal the Red Sisters who were involved in gentling Owyn without following White Tower law. After shakily asking Moiraine to leave, Thom knows that she has pressed just the right buttons with Owyn and Elayne to get him to do what she wants.



Point of view: Min Farshaw


Laras, the Mistress of the Kitchens, is teaching Min how to be a proper but also a lively young woman. Min hates her guise as Elmindreda except for the pretty dresses. She is working on her embroidery when Gawyn and Galad come by to visit. Leane had pointed out that embroidery would be perfect for allowing her to sit around and watch everyone for viewings. She seems familiar to Galad but he does not recognize her and Gawyn has agreed to keep her secret, even from Galad. Gawyn is concerned that Galad is considering joining the Whitecloaks and hopes Min will dissuade him. The role Min plays though doesn't allow her to have a serious conversation on a topic like that and she cannot help much. Gawyn mentions that the Amyrlin speaks to her every day and asks if she knows anything about Elayne or Egwene. This annoys Min greatly and she has to pretend to be clueless to maintain her cover.

Logain appears accompanied by an Accepted and Min has a new viewing, showing a flaring halo around his head, radiant in gold and blue. The halo shouted of glory and power for Logain. Min is not sure how that could come about to someone who has been gentled, but her viewings always come true. She makes an excuse so she can leave to tell the Amyrlin of such an important viewing. Gawyn accompanies her and she cannot tell him off without blowing her cover. She lets her anger out at him since he was close to ruining her alibi with his questions in front of Galad. Gawyn mentions the news of a new false Dragon in Tear and Min probes him, but he will not believe the news about the Stone falling unless he sees it for himself. After agreeing to tell him if she has any news of Elayne, he leaves her to go on alone. 

Although normally Min has to wait for the Amyrlin to seemingly run into her by coincidence, she feels the viewing about Logain is too important. She reaches the Amyrlin's Study and manages to sneak in to see Siuan with Leane looking at messages. Besides the usual news about famine in Cairhien and Trolloc attacks in the Borderlands, they also hear about a missing sister in Tarabon, the Prophet in Ghealdan, and that the Blight has mysteriously receded by miles all along the Borderlands, which has not happened in living memory. Min tells them of the new viewing of Logain, and when pressed by Siuan, admits she really wants to leave the Tower and go to Rand in Tear. Min entreats Siuan to tell Gawyn and Galad where their sister is but Siuan will have none of it and the story cannot be changed now in any case.

While Min is there new messages arrive. Mazrim Taim has escaped, freed at the village of Denhuir. Siuan orders Leane to send a dozen sisters, as reliable as she can manage, with a thousand Tower Guards to recapture and gentle Taim immediately, despite the law. Leane is shocked by this but obeys. The other message is from Moiraine discreetly saying that Rand has Callandor and so has fulfilled the prophecy. Siuan can now move forward openly with plans to guide the Dragon Reborn. Leane is sent out to convene the Hall of the Tower immediately.



Point of view: Sahra Covenry


Sahra is working on a farm in the surrounding countryside of Tar Valon and does not understand why she was sent here, away from her studies as a novice. An Aes Sedai arrives and asks her about her meeting with Elmindreda. Sahra says she really doesn't know anything until pain wracks her body. The Aes Sedai wishes to know everything that happened. When the Aes Sedai is finished interrogating Sahra, she kills her.





Chapter 18. Into the Ways 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara


Perrin finishes packing and heads toward the stables, joined by Gaul. Perrin is afraid Moiraine will try to prevent him from leaving so he tries to keep his preparations secret, asking Gaul to help him, and takes back passages on his way to meet Loial. While looking for Thom Merrilin, Faile told many people that she is leaving via the Ways and Perrin hopes that Moiraine has not found out. Perrin asks Gaul to take Faile to safety should anything happen to him, and Gaul agrees although he is skeptical that Faile can be controlled. Gaul is traveling with Perrin to repay his blood debt, as Perrin previously saved his life. They see very few people on the way to the stables and Gaul says it is because Rand has summoned many people to an audience in the Heart of the Stone.

At the stables they find that Bain and Chiad have joined Faile. Perrin asks if Gaul was skeptical about his ability to spirit Faile away because of the two Maidens and Gaul confirms that they would help resist him and he cannot fight them because of a water oath. Perrin is still at odds with Faile over her coming on the trip to the Two Rivers. They will travel the Ways as two groups with Perrin and Gaul following. As the party finishes their preparations in the stables the Stone rings like a monstrous bell, shaking the ground and walls around them. The group gallops out the city gate and Loial leads them to the Waygate. Loial moans over the loss of the grove of trees that the Tairens cut down to make a grassland for their horses. Perrin and Gaul go through the Waygate and on to the first Guiding where they wait for Loial and the rest of the party to join them.





Chapter 19. The Wavedancer 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand


Elayne and Nynaeve arrive at the docks in a carriage. As they head for the raker, Elayne asks Nynaeve to try to be tactful when dealing with the Sea Folk. They had agreed that Nynaeve would take the lead because she is older and more likely to command respect. Nynaeve introduces them both as Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah to the Sailmistress of Wavedancer, Coine din Jubai Wild Winds. Coine introduces them to her sister, Jorin din Jubai White Wing, the Windfinder. They head to the Sailmistress's cabin to discuss the gift of passage.

Inside the cabin, Elayne sees a Seanchan helmet and Coine admits that they had to fight off a Seanchan ship last year. Now they recognize the ribbed sails of the Seanchan ships and avoid them. Dorele brings in tea and is reprimanded by Coine for being topless while in port. Nynaeve asks that the ship take them to Tanchico as quickly as possible and offers a letter-of-rights as a gift. Coine wonders at the large sum being offered for passage and says that Aes Sedai are almost always refused the gift of passage; they are actually the only ones who can be refused. Nynaeve, getting annoyed, abandons tact and asks why the meeting is being held if the Sea Folk never carry Aes Sedai.

Coine recaps recent events such as the fall of the Stone and war in Tarabon and Arad Doman. These events are stated in the Jendai Prophecy, the prophecy of the Coramoor; Coine views the prophecy as being fulfilled. She takes the presence of the Aes Sedai in Tear as proof that they are serving Rand, the Coramoor, as stated in the prophecy. She asks why they wish to go to Tanchico. Nynaeve tries to evade the question and asks if they want more money but Coine persists in her question. Elayne decides a bit of honesty would be appropriate and so tells them that they hunt the Black Ajah to prevent them from harming the Dragon Reborn, or the Coramoor as the Sea Folk see Rand. Jorin, as Windfinder, decides they must and will take the two to Tanchico. Elayne does not understand why it was the Windfinder who decided and not the Sailmistress who is clearly the captain of the ship.

Toram, Coine's husband and Cargomaster of the ship, walks into the cabin talking about his trading when he is informed that the ship will be underway shortly and he must cut short his activities in Tear. Upon being told that they will be going to Tanchico instead of east to Mayene and then onto Shara as previously planned, he protests vigorously, pointing out that their goods will not be worth much in the west. Coine says only that she is Sailmistress and it is her decision, although after he leaves she says she will make it up to him in private. Coine finally decides to give passage without a gift as she must keep the Aes Sedai secret from the crew who may consider them bad luck; she will do it as a favor for the Coramoor instead. Coine says she will put in a gift of passage herself and tells Jorin to keep it a secret from Toram.

Suddenly the ship heaves and jostles about, and the two Atha'an Miere sisters rush out to check for damage to the ship.





Chapter 20. Winds Rising 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand


Elayne and Nynaeve are aboard the Wavedancer. They scramble to get on deck after the ship pitches and heaves. Elayne looks to the Stone, believing Rand has caused this, while all around others shout about earthquakes. Elayne is concerned for Rand and hopes he did not injure himself. Nynaeve wryly remarks that Rand probably caused the earthquake because he was reading Elayne's second letter. Then she notices Thom and Juilin on deck. Coine returns and says that the ship is not damaged and can set sail within the hour. She says that the two men have asked for passage to Tanchico as well. She is willing to deny them passage if the two women wish it, even though that would be entirely against custom.

Elayne suggests that she talk to them rather than Nynaeve, who begrudgingly accepts. As Elayne examines Thom, she has a feeling of familiarity, but is also sure she'd never met him before meeting at the Stone. Elayne questions the men on why they wish to go to Tanchico. Discreetly, Juilin says Rand and Lan paid him to accompany them and only return if the women returned safely. Thom, no less discreetly, tells them that Moiraine asked him to do similarly. Nynaeve allows them to join only if they agree to obey. Thom argues for a bit before relenting.

They leave Tear and sail downriver through the Fingers of the Dragon to reach the Sea of Storms to the south, before heading west. Once the ship is well away from land, all the women take off their blouses. Embarrassed, Elayne and Juilin struggle to find somewhere to look. Nynaeve heads below to find their cabin. Elayne talks to Thom who seems depressed, weighed down by his decisions and the need to make them. Elayne is sure that if she can make him laugh, she will remember where she has seen him before. He talks about the impermanence of history and how a story passed down can be unrecognizable after only a few generations. He laughs at the plausibility of some of the tales of Artur Hawkwing; Hawkwing could not possibly have fought a hundred duels in one day as the stories say. Elayne is now sure that she knows Thom from somewhere, although she still cannot place it. Elayne lets slip that the Wavedancer was originally going east to Shara before they convinced Coine to sail to Tanchico instead, which surprises Thom.

Suddenly, Elayne detects a great amount of channeling occurring toward the stern of the ship and abruptly leaves Thom at the bow. She finds Jorin at the stern channeling thick weaves of Air and Water, yet very intricately. Jorin ties off the weave so that it will continue until morning and slumps back onto the railing to rest. Jorin admits that she had wanted to cut short her weave when she felt Elayne watching, but to do so would have caused a great storm that the ship may not have survived. Elayne realizes this must be why the Sea Folk do not carry Aes Sedai, as it is a secret that some Windfinders can channel. Jorin had the right to veto their passage for this reason, but she did not. The Sea Folk periodically send a few girls to train as novices to satisfy the Tower, but should the truth get out Aes Sedai would likely try recruiting more. Elayne promises to try to protect the Sea Folk from Aes Sedai interference in the future, although she knows her power to do so will be limited even with the might of Andor behind her.

Elayne asks if the Seanchan vessel they fought had a damane on it, which she explains is a captive woman who can channel. Jorin admits there was. Jorin had not known the damane was a captive, or else they might have tried to save the woman. Although it is difficult for her to weave Fire, Jorin was able to start some fires on the Seanchan ship and with the help of Toram and the crew fighting, they were able to repel the boarders and eventually the Seanchan ship sank from the flames. She expects they can make it to Tanchico in ten days, perhaps even sooner, which astonishes Elayne. Elayne asks Jorin to teach her to weave the winds, which surprises Jorin since she expects Aes Sedai to know more than her. She agrees and suggests that they will learn from each other.





Chapter 21. Into the Heart 






Point of view: Moiraine Damodred


All available Tairen nobility, high and low alike, have been summoned to the Heart of the Stone by Rand and await his arrival. Previously only the High Lords came to the Heart and only for the four yearly ceremonies, as Tairens did not like to be reminded of Callandor. Moiraine arrives, irritated that Lan is not with her for some reason, although she can feel through the bond that he is still in the city. The Tairens part way in front of her easily due to their aversion to Aes Sedai. Egwene follows Moiraine in and Moiraine asks her about Rand. Egwene does not know anything about what Rand intends to announce; Moiraine is privately concerned that Rand has heard the rumors about the Two Rivers and hopes he will not be distracted by them. She tries to encourage Egwene to position herself closer to Rand which annoys Egwene, but it does not matter anyway as Egwene says that Rand will not confide in anyone. Moiraine still thinks that Egwene must be jealous about Rand and Elayne.

Moiraine expects Elayne and Nynaeve to be aboard Wavedancer by now and hopes they will be able to verify her suspicions about the Windfinders. Should they fail to obtain passage from the Sea Folk, they have enough gold to buy a ship and crew; she knows from her informants that Thom Merrilin has taken up her offer and will see them to Tanchico in either case. She does not believe that the Black Ajah sisters went there because the plot to free Mazrim Taim is much more likely, so they should be reasonably safe. She wishes Egwene had gone with them instead of her insistence on going to the Aiel Waste to learn about Tel'aran'rhiod. She would have preferred that all three Accepted were back in the Tower training their strength; she curses Siuan for sending the three on this mission to hunt the Black Ajah. Moiraine muses on the various plots of the High Lords and Ladies and expects that she will have to protect Rand from them, especially now that Thom is gone. Mat is present, but Perrin is missing and although Moiraine knows that Faile has been trying to get Perrin to leave, she does not know that he is actually off to the Two Rivers.

Rand enters bearing Callandor, moving imperiously through the gathered crowd who are disturbed by Callandor and the trailing veiled Aiel. As he runs his eyes across the crowd and sees Egwene, he is surprised that she has not gone with Elayne and Nynaeve. With no warning, he suddenly starts making declarations. The High Lord Sunamon is in charge of signing a fair treaty with Mayene as previously determined by Rand or else he will be hanged. Mayene will lend ships to Tear to carry grain to be sold in the west rather than to the north in Cairhien.

Rand mentions that the soldiers will march; the Tairens assume an attack on Illian is imminent before Rand continues and clarifies that the army is to march north to Cairhien, led by various High Lords that Rand privately knows are plotting against him, thanks to Thom's information. Meilan, one of the named High Lords, starts to list objections before Rand cuts him off. Rand continues, saying that in addition to the army restoring peace and order to Cairhien, wagons will also carry some of the excess grain to feed the starving people. Rand pokes Callandor at the ground and yells at Meilan again which stops all opposition. Although Cairhien is Moiraine's homeland, she does not understand this strategy and its purpose and wonders if it is Lanfear's idea. Rand then sends High Lady Alteima to Cairhien as well under the pretext of needing a woman to oversee the distribution of grain; he neatly threatens her at the same time by moving her sick husband to the care of High Lady Estanda, her rival. Alteima faints at the implication but only a few in the room seem to understand the subtext.

Rand then surprises everybody by announcing that he will not be accompanying the army to Cairhien and will instead be going elsewhere. Then Rand embeds Callandor in the stone floor, driving it halfway in, and sets traps around it as a sign that he will return. This shakes the Stone and is felt even by those in the city and the harbor. He taunts the Tairens and dares them to try to take the sword and become the new ruler of Tear. Rand and the Aiel then leave before the Tairens can recover from their shock.

Moiraine and Egwene hurry to catch up to Rand. Rand expresses his surprise that Egwene did not leave for Tanchico and she explains that she will be going with Aviendha to Rhuidean to learn from the Wise Ones. He informs Moiraine that he set traps on Callandor so that no one will be take it out except him. Its presence in the Stone reminds the Tairens of him and will allow him to return in the future without an army at his back; doing so is also a passage in the Prophecies of the Dragon and he is simply fulfilling it. Moiraine is concerned that the Forsaken will take the sword but Rand is confident in his wards. He then says that he is going to Rhuidean as well, which elicits a reaction from the Aiel. Moiraine questions why Rand needs to go to Rhuidean which is only for Aiel clan chiefs and Wise Ones and wonders if it is related to his answers from the realm beyond the twisted redstone doorframe; Rand says only that Moiraine must trust him as he had to trust her.





Chapter 22. Out of the Stone 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor


Rand leaves Tear anonymously with the Aiel accompanying him, riding his new Tairen horse, Jeade'en. The Tairen commoners see the procession of Aiel but do not recognize him and have no reason to believe that he is the Dragon Reborn. Lan, Moiraine and Mat follow along behind while Egwene rides at his side. Egwene questions Rand whether the Aiel should have been allowed to take treasures from the Stone, the fifth. Rand points out that Egwene's friend Aviendha did it too which surprises her before she forgets her previous objection and starts acting like Rand was the one objecting, which makes Rand laugh as it reminds him of their childhood. Egwene brings up Elayne and asks why Rand did not ask her to stay, but Rand knew that Elayne wanted to go to Tanchico so he did not object. Rand does not understand why Egwene is upset at him over this.

Moiraine comes over and asks Rand to unleash his next surprise which she knows is coming. Rand checks that Mat really wants to go to the Waste with him which leads Moiraine to chide Rand for letting Perrin return to the Two Rivers and keeping his plans to leave from her. Rand says that he knows he cannot be distracted by the Two Rivers so it had to be Perrin who went back. Prompted again by Moiraine, Rand says that he believes they can take a Portal Stone to the Waste, perhaps even near their destination, Rhuidean. Mat reacts angrily to this due to their previous experience with a Portal Stone, but Rand has no time to waste traveling over land. Rand points out again that Mat doesn't have to go but Mat says otherwise.

Rand explains that he read a book on the Aiel which mentioned a peddler who had seen a Portal Stone in the Waste; he also knows from maps shown by the chief librarian in the Stone that there are no fewer than four Portal Stones near Tear. Moiraine is very skeptical even though she does not know as much about Portal Stones as Verin; Lan chimes in as he knows some things from his experience with the Aiel. But Rand is sure the writings' descriptions must be a Portal Stone because they are too distinctive and cannot be mistaken for anything else. They arrive at one of the locations that should have a Portal Stone, but Rand does not see anything.

After a suggestion by Lan, Rand asks Rhuarc to have the Aiel find the Portal Stone. While waiting, Rand and Rhuarc discuss the Aiel expedition briefly. Rhuarc explains that the Aiel have held together on this side of the Dragonwall despite being of disparate clans because they had sworn water oath in front of the Wise Ones not to shed each other's blood while in the wetlands. Had it not been for the oath, Rhuarc may have danced the spears with the Shaido. Aviendha finds the Portal Stone and Rand leads the group to it. Rand asks Aviendha why she seems to not like him and she mutters about various things before going on to berate him about his treatment of Elayne.

On the Portal Stone Rand finds two symbols he believes represent Rhuidean and Rhuarc confirms this. Rhuarc also confirms that there is a similar stone at Chaendaer which is near Rhuidean. As Rand is trying to decide between the two symbols, Mat suggests that he flip a coin to choose since he is lucky. Egwene protests the ridiculousness of this but Moiraine seems to approve. Rand found a male angreal in the Great Holding and plans to use it to augment his channeling so he can bring all of the Aiel and the pack horses to Rhuidean. Rand pulls all the power he can through the angreal and the group winks out of existence.




Portal stone symbols that might lead to Rhuidean.
The coin chose the one pointing left.










Chapter 23. Beyond the Stone 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere


Rand's channeling at the Portal Stone in Tear has brought them to the side of a mountain, Chaendaer, near Rhuidean. Rhuidean is engulfed in fog that is unaffected by the desert, giving the appearance of a city in clouds. Mat is elated that they all arrived safely and without any incidents. Rand seems tired and has to be helped to his feet by Lan. Moiraine is angry with Rand for overextending himself bringing all of the Aiel and their pack animals, but she does wash away some of his fatigue. Rand is angry that Moiraine Healed him without asking first. Their surprise appearance has brought the Aiel out from two camps, veiling their faces and preparing to fight. A Wise One from a third camp reminds them of the Peace of Rhuidean, where all pledge to not fight those who travel to or from the city.

Aviendha tries to sneak off, carrying her fifth from the Stone of Tear, but Seana quickly tells her to stay. Rhuarc embraces his wife, Amys, who knew that he would arrive today. This tells Egwene that the letter Moiraine received from the Wise Ones specified that she would arrive today. Heirn and Couladin approach Rhuarc and Heirn subtly indicates he came to protect Rhuarc from the Shaido, as explained by Lan. Moiraine is surprised by Lan's knowledge of the Aiel. Lan quickly gives water to Egwene and Moiraine to protect them from the desert. Rhuarc finally addresses Couladin and asks whether the Shaido are present so that one of them can become the new clan chief, and Couladin confirms that his brother Muradin has gone to Rhuidean. Should he fail to return, Couladin himself will go, but the Bair interjects and points out that the Wise Ones must give permission first. Couladin insists that it is his right to go, but Bair says that it is his right to ask to go; she does not think he has the strength and will likely not be given permission. Couladin, embarrassed, can only shout that his brother will succeed and return as clan chief.

Amys asks to see Rand and he formally requests permission to go to Rhuidean. His request is granted by Amys, Bair, Melaine and Seana, while Couladin vehemently objects to a wetlander receiving permission. Rand believes his mother was Aiel, but he is told that his father was. Egwene does not know what to make of this news. Suddenly Mat is there also asking to go to Rhuidean to everyone's surprise. This enrages Couladin who attacks Mat, but he is stopped by Amys and Melaine who channel to fling him away with the Power, surprising Egwene. Couladin, Heirn and Rhuarc are dismissed by the Wise Ones and told to go to their tents. The Wise Ones look at Mat and refuse him, as he has no Aiel ancestry. But Rand tells them that Mat can come with him. The Wise Ones have a short discussion about Rand and Aiel culture and change their minds, giving Mat permission to go with Rand. Rand is instructed to enter Rhuidean's heart. They can take no weapons, food or water. Rand leaves his belt knife and angreal, while Mat starts pulling out his hidden knives and ends with an impressive pile. After they are instructed not to speak of what they see at Rhuidean, Rand and Mat depart on foot.

Amys addresses Lan as Aan'allein and sends him to Rhuarc, leaving only the Wise Ones with Egwene, Aviendha and Moiraine. Moiraine asks about the name they gave to Lan and Amys explains that they know and respect Lan as the last of the Malkieri, the man who fights his own war against the Shadow; they knew that if Moiraine would come to Rhuidean, Lan almost certainly would as well. This troubles Moiraine deeply because it means that there was a possibility that Lan would not come with Moiraine. Bair summons Aviendha over to begin her training as a Wise One apprentice; Egwene realizes that Aviendha can channel and has the spark in her. This realization unlocks in Egwene the ability to recognize other channelers. The Wise Ones know Moiraine had wanted to make Aviendha a novice of the White Tower; they criticize the Tower's training and say they will do a better job. Aviendha is made to toss away her weapons and strip off her clothes. Then she is told to go to Rhuidean and find three rings, which Egwene realizes is a ter'angreal, and step through one of them to see images from her future. The Wise Ones all give Aviendha some encouraging parting words and Egwene is reminded of her test for Accepted. Aviendha runs down the slope to the fog shrouded city.

Egwene finally gets the chance to introduce herself and expresses her desire to learn. Bair says that they can now slow down; they rushed before because they needed to take action to send Rand where he needed to go before Couladin or anyone else could do harm to him. Aviendha likewise needed to be sent to Rhuidean as soon as possible because she had delayed so long before starting her Wise One training. Now they invite Egwene and Moiraine into the tents for water and shade. They exchange formal greetings and the Wise Ones welcome them to chat as first-sisters would. Egwene asks about the servants that served wine and water and Melaine almost chokes on her wine. She is told they are not servants but gai'shain. Warriors captured in battle are to serve a year and a day based on a complex system of honor and duty the Aiel call ji'e'toh.

Moiraine asks about the letter she received in Tear. Melaine tells her that if Rand had not come, he would have died and so would the Aiel. If Moiraine had not come Rand would have died. If Lan had not come Moiraine would have died. She starts to say what would happen if Moiraine does not go through the rings but then realizes that was not to be spoken of yet. Seana tries to cover for Melaine and explains that Tel'aran'rhiod only tells of possible futures. Moiraine then starts speculating on the nuances of words from the Old Tongue such as the name Aiel, which means the dedicated, but stronger. Moiraine wonders what the Aiel are dedicated to. Then there is the Jenn Aiel, which means the true dedicated, only stronger still. The Wise Ones go very still and stare at Moiraine like statues. Egwene tries to change the subject but then Moiraine gets up and begins to strip so that she can go to Rhuidean like Aviendha. The Wise Ones are annoyed that Moiraine was told before she asked to go as they had foreseen; this subtlety may change everything or it may change nothing, it is impossible to know. Moiraine asks them to stop Lan from following her as she knows he will want to.

Egwene asks whether she needs to go to Rhuidean too since everyone else is going but is promptly shut down. She asks the Wise Ones to begin instructing her about Tel'aran'rhiod and dreamwalking and Bair obliges, but Amys says that she must obey their instructions completely and not return to Tel'aran'rhiod until they say she can. Egwene agrees and Bair starts lecturing her about the subject in general; she is expected to remember everything after being told once and will be sent to scrub pots should she fail to do so. 





Chapter 24. Rhuidean 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon


Rand and Mat arrive outside Rhuidean, which is veiled in fog. Mat spies Aviendha running to the city naked, but Rand does not notice. Rand reminds Mat that he can still turn back but Mat reiterates that he must continue. Mat questions Rand in turn and Rand says he has to go too. Mat suggests that maybe the snake people just tell everyone to go to Rhuidean, but Rand reveals that he is not here because of them. Rand, followed by Mat, walks through the wall of fog and come out into the city which is still domed by fog, blocking the sky. Mat walks to the nearest fountain but finds it empty. Rand comes to a realization and channels; a stream of water flows out, filling the basin. Rand almost forgets to drink until Mat reminds him.

After walking for a mile, they reach a huge plaza with an enormous tree at the center. The tree overlooks concentric rings of clear, glittering glass columns. The plaza is cluttered with many other things, which Mat realizes must be ter'angreal when he sees a spear standing upright with nothing to support it. Rand notices two small figurines, about a foot tall, a man and a woman, each holding a crystal sphere. Rand is tempted to touch them but draws back. Rand sees the tree and recognizes that it is Avendesora, the Tree of Life. Mat tries to pluck a trefoil leaf but cannot reach the lowest branches. He settles for leaning against the trunk of the tree and feels oddly serene. Rand, reminded of his duty, decides it is time to go into the columns but warns Mat away, telling him it is only to become an Aiel clan chief. Mat cannot decide whether to follow Rand into the columns so he flips a coin which lands on its edge. He blames the result on Rand until it topples over and shows heads, which means he stays outside. Mat suspects that Rand channeled to make the coin land that way but Rand gives no indication either way.

As Mat wanders among the ter'angreal he spies a twisted redstone doorframe, similar to the one in Tear but with different decorations. Since he has to wait for Rand anyway, he figures he has time to step through and come back. After stepping through, he sees that he is not in the same place as last time. He is in a star-shaped chamber with many glassy columns and he sees that the floor is covered in dust, unused for a long time. He is greeted by one of the Eelfinn who ask him the same questions about iron, musical instruments, and devices for making light and Mat confirms he did not bring any of those. The creature leads him ahead and they walk down a corridor for a long time, perhaps more than an hour before reaching a doorway ahead. There were many side corridors, but they all showed the same scene, the ter'angreal where he entered and their boot prints leading away from it.

Mat enters the chamber with eight pedestals in a star shape. As he looks around he notices the doorway is gone. Mat begins asking questions, but the fox people do not answer. He becomes angry and rambles on. Finally he says that if he had his way he would want the holes in him memory filled and one of the Eelfinn responds "done." He continues by saying he wants a way to be free of Aes Sedai and the Power and he wants to be away from them and back to Rhuidean. He again gets responses of "done," not realizing that this doorway grants wishes and he has just made three of them. They spoke, calling him a fool for not setting the price, they said they would set it for him. Suddenly he is in darkness and something is around his throat so that he cannot breathe.





Chapter 25. The Road to the Spear 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor Setting: Rhuidean


Rand enters the glass columns ter'angreal in Rhuidean. He wonders what the ter'angreal really does. Rand notices Muradin a few paces ahead, staring off into the distance with his mouth quivering. Rand wonders why they did not see Muradin before if they were so close behind him. Rand takes another step.



First vision[]


Point of view: Mandein Setting: Outside Rhuidean


Rand feels himself seeing through another man's eyes. He sees an unfogged Rhuidean in the distance with only a few structures started. He realizes that he is in the body of Mandein, a young, 40 year old Aiel sept chief. Rand feels his consciousness merge with Mandein's. Mandein sees the glass columns and a huge tree in the middle of the city. He sees the Jenn Aiel come out of Rhuidean carrying two palanquins. Mandein's wife, Sealdre, tells him he must agree to do as the Jenn Aiel ask. Sealdre's dreams said the septs whose chiefs do not agree will die off and be forgotten. Mandein knows that the Wise Ones' dreams are true when they are sure. He and a small escort of warriors approach Rhuidean, leaving the rest with Sealdre. He tells his escort to stop and unveils. Approaching Rhuidean alone, he sees many other sept chiefs approach also. The situation is tense since many of the septs are at war with the others and a small fight could become a furious melee.

He sees the Jenn Aiel lower two palanquins holding two ancient Aes Sedai. He meets Dermon,  Mordaine, and Narisse, representatives of the Jenn Aiel. Dermon introduces the ancient Aes Sedai. Mandein asks Dermon why they were summoned. Dermon does not answer but asks why the Aiel do not carry swords. Mandein can only say that it is forbidden, since he doesn't know why. The Aes Sedai both comment sadly that the Aiel don't know, but must know. Again, Mandein asks what the purpose is. Dermon answers that potential Aiel leaders must come to Rhuidean to relearn the history of the Aiel and why swords are forbidden.

Charendin, another sept chief, steps forward and asks whether they want to select the One who leads the Aiel. One of the Aes Sedai clarifies that he who will lead the Aiel will come later; she then speaks the lines of the Prophecy of Rhuidean. Charendin is skeptical and thinks the Aes Sedai seek to control the Aiel, but the Aes Sedai rebut him sharply and point out that their days are numbered and they will soon die. Even the Jenn Aiel will soon die off and be no more. That is why the chiefs among the Aiel must come to Rhuidean to learn and remember the history of the Aiel. Mandein asks a final question - why do the Jenn build Rhuidean when they know they are doomed? Dermon replies only that it is their purpose to build Rhuidean, as they had searched for it for many years. Mandein acknowledges the Jenn as Aiel and, remembering his wife's words, agrees to enter Rhuidean unarmed.



Point of view: Rand Setting: Rhuidean


Rand returns to himself. He tries to make sense of what he saw, but is confused if the Jenn were Aiel or not. They looked and dressed like Aiel, but had no veils and carried no weapons. He seems to be significantly deeper into the columns than he was before and Muradin is closer. Muradin is now frowning heavily. Rand steps forward again.



Second vision[]


Point of view: Rhodric Setting: South of Kinslayer's Dagger


Rand is now Rhodric, a young Aiel who is not yet 20 years old. Rhodric stands among the hills south of a mountain range near the Spine of the World. He watches Aiel dig wells below him, overseen by his greatfather Jeordam. The land is parched and finding water is difficult. He remembers that the world used to be much greener and hopes the rains will come again soon. He sees Garam, son of the chief of the nearby town, approach and speaks with him. They are the first people to allow the Aiel access to water without fighting.

Garam reports to Jeordam that the Jenn Aiel are moving east across the Spine of the World. The Aiel follow and guard the Jenn Aiel, but Rhodric doesn't really know why. Four Aes Sedai have joined the Jenn recently and they make Garam uneasy. The Aes Sedai make Rhodric uneasy too, because stories say the Aiel failed the Aes Sedai in some way without detailing how. Garam suggests they kill the Aes Sedai before they destroy the world again, but Jeordam is unmoved. Garam speaks of his father's Aes Sedai advisor and plans to leave these hills and that the rivers will flow again soon; she says that they will build a great city beside one of the rivers. Garam notes that the Spine is also called the Dragonwall and Jeordam replies that it is a fitting name. Rhodric knows the Aiel are secretly called the People of the Dragon, but does not know what it means.



Point of view: Rand Setting: Rhuidean


Rand realizes he was seeing a time from before the Aiel went to the Three-fold Land. The glass columns are brighter than ever. He is closer yet to Muradin who seems to be struggling to continue on. Rand moves forward.



Third vision[]


Point of view: Jeordam Setting: Somewhere in the Westlands


Jeordam is eighteen and does not believe the stories of the Breaking. There are fewer than two thousand Aiel and many more Jenn Aiel. Jeordam knows it is his duty to protect the Jenn. Some Jenn have come to ask for help. One of the Jenn argue with Jeordam, saying that they are the only true Aiel and that he has abandoned the Way. Jeordam retorts that he is Aiel because he has never held a sword. A pretty woman named Morin stops the arguing and Jeordam takes them to his father Lewin. Morin explains that men who traded with them later took back the goods and stole more besides. Some Jenn were killed and women were carried off, including Morin's young daughter. Lewin promises to get their women back and offers the Jenn the opportunity to go with him on the rescue, but they must be willing to defend themselves and thus will never be allowed back into the Jenn. All the men, except the one who argued with Jeordam, take Lewin's proffered spears. Morin takes one also, surprising everyone. She will recover her daughter herself.

Morin has trouble with her spear due to her dress. So, Jeordam asks her to stay behind and let them rescue her daughter. She refuses and Jeordam recommends wearing clothes like his cadin'sor instead. He shortens the spear for her, making her the first Maiden of the Spear. She fumes that her husband will not do anything to get their daughter back, speaking only of the Way of the Leaf. All he cares about are the three Trees of Life and finding a place of safety to plant them. Morin tells Jeordam that she dreamed of him and that he will make a fine father. Jeordam realizes the shorter spears are quicker and more agile giving them an advantage over swordsmen. Eventually, the short spear becomes the standard weapon for all Aiel.



Point of view: Rand Setting: Rhuidean


Lights flash through the glass columns now, blindingly bright. Rand is almost next to Muradin who has teeth bared and is snarling. Rand knows the glass columns are showing him the lost history of the Aiel. Each step takes him further back in time. He moves inexorably forward.



Fourth vision[]


Point of view: Lewin Setting: Somewhere in the Westlands


The land is hot and dry with constant dusty winds, requiring them to wear dustveils. Lewin is thirsty since they're permitted water only at mealtimes. He remembers when the land was wetter and less harsh. Lewin, Gearan, Luca, Charlin, and Alijha spy down upon a bandit camp. Lewin recalls the belongings of his sister Maigran and Charlin's sister Colline strewn about the wagons. He recalls the other Aiel mourning, but already picking up and moving on. Lewin's greatfather Adan only seemed concerned about keeping the Aiel people alive and keeping faith with the absent Aes Sedai, instead of saving any individual Aiel including his granddaughter. Adan probably would have stopped the boys' rescue plan if he had known.

The boys bumble into the camp, nearly waking the bandits. Lewin finds Maigran in a catatonic shock and Colline trembling under a blanket. The traumatized girls will not run. A bearded bandit wakes, nudges the other bandits, and threatens to carve Lewin like a pig. They edge toward the boys like easy prey. Charlin tackles the bearded bandit to the ground while another raises a sword. Lewin finds himself cracking the bandit's skull with a kettle. A braided bandit approaches with a sword, while Lewin scuttles away and claws at a random stick. Lewin jabs him away, but is appalled to see a spear skewering the bandit instead. Dazed, Lewin realizes they've killed all the bandits. Charlin whines in pain and dies from a blade deep in his belly. Scared and confused, the others seek guidance and Lewin says they must return. They scramble for anything useful like cookpots, knives, and especially metals. Alijha rationalizes that the stolen goods came from others like them anyways. But Lewin stops Alijha from gathering swords, telling him the Way prohibits swords. Swords are weapons made only for killing men, but spears can put food in the pots. The group trudges back with Charlin's corpse on a makeshift stretcher of spears and cloth.

Adan, Colline's mother Nerrine, and Lewin's mother Saralin meet them outside the camp. Adan interrogates them, growing furious when Maigran says Lewin killed the bandits. Lewin justifies it, but Adan yells that there is never a reason to kill anyone. Instead, they must accept and endure every hardship as a test of their faithfulness. Adan disowns them from the Da'shain Aiel. As Lewin pleads with his mother, she tells him to hide his face... she used to have a son with that face, but doesn't want to see it on a killer. The dusty wind picks up again, as Lewin veils his face and insists he is still Aiel.



Point of view: Rand Setting: Rhuidean


Rand tries to make sense of what he just saw. Lewin was Aiel but did not carry any weapons and did not know how to use them. Rand is now almost abreast of Muradin who is snarling and sweating heavily. Rand continues moving forward.



Visions[]


For more detailed summary of the visions see the page Visions of Rhuidean.





Chapter 26. The Dedicated 






Rand is living past memories of his Aiel ancestors using the glass columns ter'angreal at the center of Rhuidean.

In this chapter and the previous, he sees a total of nine visions, which reveal generations of Aiel history including that of the Breaking and its origins. The Aiel originally followed the Way of the Leaf. During the Breaking, an Aes Sedai sent them away with a load of treasures in order to get their peaceful people to safety. However, over time this purpose and their peacefulness was lost.

For more detailed summary of the visions see the page Visions of Rhuidean.



Fifth vision[]


Point of view: Adan Setting: Somewhere in the Westlands


Adan cries with his grandchildren, Lewin and Maigran, as they all hide in a hollow. Wagons burn, Aiel dead lay everywhere, most horses have fled, and crates of the Aes Sedai objects are toppled everywhere. The raiders load women into empty wagons, including Adan's last living daughter Rhea. Adan's other children Elwin, Sorelle, Jaren, and Marind are all dead. He fears that rescuing Rhea would only get himself or his grandchildren killed. As the raiders fade into the distance, he surveys the damage and finds his wife Siedre dead.

Sulwin and other survivors demand to know Adan's plans. Adan plans to bury the dead and continue onwards. Incredulous, Sulwin asks how they can go on without horses, water, or food. They are only left with crates that the Aes Sedai will never collect, filled with objects they don't understand, and whose importance is somehow worth dying for. Adan is adamant about the objects and their faithfulness to their duty to the Aes Sedai. Sulwin argues that they are supposed to find a safe place where they could sing the old songs. But, Adan dismisses the old stories, old songs, and old days as lost causes. Adan reiterates that they keep their promise to the Aes Sedai. 

Sulwin's followers prepare to depart by unloading crates from the wagons. Adan disowns them saying "You are not Aiel." Sulwin snaps back that they'll keep the Way of the Leaf, implying it's more important to Aiel culture than their promise regarding the crates. Adan banishes them calling them "lost." Sulwin's followers break crates seeking food and gold, only finding more useless objects. Adan surveys the dead, a polished redstone doorframe, figurines, crystal shapes, and Chora cuttings strewn everywhere and wonders. They cannot save all the Aes Sedai objects, but some could be saved. Lewin and Maigran clutch their mother's skirts and Adan is glad to see Saralin survived. Marind, Saralin's husband, died to the first arrow that day, but some could be saved. He cries out that they are still faithful to the Aes Sedai, but begs how long must they stay faithful, weeping into Seidre's chest.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor Setting: Rhuidean


Rand weeps Seidre's name and is confused because Sulwin mentioned them following the Way of the Leaf and that is not a Aiel concept. The lights from the glass columns are spinning now. Muradin is standing next to him, eyes bulging in disbelief. Both of them step forward.



Sixth vision[]


Point of view: Jonai Setting: East of the ruins of Comelle


There are several thousand Aiel but many less than there were and fewer wagons also. Jonai is the leader and Adan is his son. Some time ago, an Aes Sedai visiting their camp claimed that Ishamael was only partly trapped. She had healed the sick but it was too late for his wife, Alnora, who had previously guided him with her dreams. The Aes Sedai left with some of the sa'angreal and had no answer when Jonai asked her where to find a place of safety.

Adan brings news that they met a group of Ogier to Jonai. Jonai is briefly angry over their food that the Ogier are eating which can provide for many more humans, but he knows it is right to share. Jonai discusses the situation with the Ogier who tell him that the Blight has extended southward and that there are Myrddraal and Trollocs there, so Jonai cannot lead his people north. The Ogier ask about chora cuttings and Adan confirms that the Aiel have some which they keep alive by potting new cuttings before the old ones die. The Ogier are looking for a stedding and fear they will soon die if they do not find one to satisfy their Longing for one. Jonai suffers a pain in his chest and tells Adan to take the people south. He tells Adan to keep the Covenant and guard the things for the Aes Sedai until they return for them. He remembers Solinda Sedai and hopes she will understand that he had tried his best; he dies, holding the memory of his wife.



Point of view: Rand Setting: Rhuidean


Rand is still confused over references to the Way of the Leaf the Aiel say they follow. The glass columns are now pulsing with light and the air starts to swirl around. Muradin is screaming and clawing at his face.



Seventh vision[]


Point of view: Jonai Setting: Paaran Disen


Jonai is sixty-three, in the prime of his life, but around him jo-cars no longer work and the ground is shaking from earthquakes. He rushes through the empty streets of Paaran Disen, the greatest city in the world, wearing his work clothes, the cadin'sor. He enters the Hall of Servants where people are scurrying about fearfully and makes his way to a group of Aes Sedai, women only. On the table in the room is a crystal sword, which makes him shiver. The sword is resting on the Dragon Banner, which makes him shudder. Deindre Sedai has just given a Foretelling about important events. Oselle Sedai lashes out at Deindre, angry that the Foretelling is about an indeterminable point in the future and Solinda Sedai attempts to moderate.

Jonai, waiting for the Aes Sedai to finish, goes over to talk to his old friend Someshta, a Nym. Someshta does not really remember him and laments the state of the world. Someshta asks Jonai whether he is a Child of the Dragon, which causes Jonai to wince. The Children of the Dragon name is a misnomer as the Da'shain Aiel serve all the Aes Sedai and not just the Dragon, but many people believe it now. Then Solinda comes over and asks if all is ready and Jonai confirms that it is. Jonai tells her that some of the Aiel wish to stay and continue to serve here, but she tells him to leave and keep moving until they find a place of safety. The Da'shain Aiel will have a part to play in the future, although Deindre does not know how or what.

Solinda asks Jonai about his father, Coumin; Jonai tells her sadly that he has abandoned the Way of the Leaf and has found an old shocklance in order to fight and has tried to convince other Aiel to do the same. Solinda entreats Jonai to keep to the Way to which he quickly agrees; this shocks Jonai as he equates the Way as the very essence of being Aiel. As Solinda returns to the other Aes Sedai she is asked by her sisters if Kodam and his fellows, male Aes Sedai, can truly be trusted. She confirms they have barely been touched by the taint as they are young and inexperienced, and regardless there is no other choice. As Jonai leaves, the Aes Sedai tell Someshta that they have a task for the last of the Nym.

Jonai returns to the wagons just outside the city, thousands of wagons ten abreast filled with food and water. They are also carrying angreal, sa'angreal, and ter'angreal that must be kept from the men who are going mad and breaking the world. Sadly, the more advanced methods of transportation such as hoverflies and sho-wings no longer work and they must resort to wagons drawn by horses. He looks at the assembled Aiel, enough to populate a city, who may be all the Aiel remaining in the world. Many of them come to him to see if the Aes Sedai granted their request to stay and continue to serve here, but Jonai replies in the negative. They are Da'shain Aiel and must obey the Aes Sedai. Among the objects of the Power are potted chora cuttings, which Jonai sees as representing hope for his people. He sees his children and meets his wife Alnora. He asks about her dreams, but her dreams are not about the near future. She reassures him that all will be well. The wagons begin to move on their long journey to safety.



Point of view: Rand Setting: Rhuidean


Rand is overwhelmed by the information he is receiving. The air around him pulses with energy and wind is swirling everywhere. Muradin has clawed his face and is now clawing at his eyes. Rand continues forward.



Eighth vision[]


Point of view: Coumin Setting: A city during the Age of Legends


Coumin is sixteen and participating in his first seed singing ceremony with Ogier during the War of Power. The fields are guarded by soldiers in jo-cars. He goes not believe his greatfather Charn's claim that once there were no soldiers or Trollocs or Myrddraal. Charn also claims to have served Lanfear before she became one of the Forsaken. Charn insists that Lanfear had not always been evil but nobody believes him. Someshta approaches and the Ogier begin singing along with the Da'shain Aiel. Fields of zemai sprout up quickly and Coumin knows that they will be unaffected by the Blight.

An Ogier asks one of the soldiers if there is news and he replies that there is an unconfirmed report saying that Lews Therin has just led a strike on Shayol Ghul. The Bore has been sealed and most if not all of the Forsaken along with it. People are celebrating as Coumin goes to find Charn to discuss the news and the prospect of the end of the war. Coumin is attacked by one of the townspeople for Charn's association with Lanfear. When Coumin finally finds Charn, he is dead, hung by some of the townspeople. Coumin can only kneel and look at Charn's corpse uncomprehendingly.



Point of view: Rand Setting: Rhuidean


Rand sees Muradin veiled but with his eyes clawed out. Muradin appears to be biting his own tongue out. The wind is now a ferocious whirlwind. Rand steps forward once more. 



Ninth vision[]


Point of view: Charn Setting: Outside the Collam Daan


Charn is twenty-five and plans to accept the marriage proposal from Nalla that night. He will transfer his service from Mierin Sedai to Zorelle Sedai. A citizen accidentally knocks him to the ground. As they are exchanging apologies, the ground ripples, then the air ripples also. He is concerned because today is the day Mierin and Beidomon are to tap into the new power source that will allow men and women to use the same source for their channeling. As he watches, the Sharom disintegrates and falls to the ground. He begins to run toward the Sharom, knowing he is too late.



Point of view: Rand Setting: Rhuidean


Rand is amazed that he saw the hole being drilled into the Dark One's prison. He is outside the glass columns, beneath Avendesora which he now knows to be a chora tree. He no longer can see Muradin and does not expect him to emerge from the columns. He sees something swinging from a low branch of Avendesora and realizes it is Mat hanging from a pole. He channels a sword and leaps to cut the rope, then revives Mat using techniques he learned from Master Luhhan.

Mat finally wakes up and is angry at the Eelfinn for trying to kill him. Mat tells Rand he went through another twisted redstone doorframe but did not get answers. Mat has the foxhead medallion and the ashandarei but doesn't realize they are what he wished for. Mat refers to the script on the spear, thinking the Eelfinn are mocking him with it, but Rand can't read it since it is in the Old Tongue. They agree to leave in the night, only stopping to get a drink before exiting the city.

Rand again sees the figurines with the crystal spheres but thinks it is too soon to take them. A bubble of evil begins turning dust into shivering lines. When Rand attacks the figures that form with his power wrought sword, they return to dust. Mat fights well with the ashandarei but they are injured because there are so many. Finally Rand channels a strand of power into each shape and they explode and are gone. More begin to form as the they run for the fog encircling the city. None of the forms follow them out of the fog. They begin to trudge up the mountain as Rand thinks of the Aiel Prophecy, that he will come with the dawn.



Visions[]


For more detailed summary of the visions see the page Visions of Rhuidean.







Chapter 27. Within the Ways 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara


Perrin and Gaul are in the Ways and have been following the group led by Loial for two days. Loial with Faile, Bain, and Chiad are heading for the Manetheren Waygate which will put the group near the Two Rivers. Perrin reflects on the altercation he had with Faile when she took exception to his entering the Ways first. The result appears to have been a draw. For now, Perrin is following the agreement with Loial to stay back.

Faile calls for Perrin to join her at the final guiding. Just as they are about to leave for the Waygate, Perrin smells Trollocs and shouts to warn the others. A battle starts and before long all of the Trollocs are dead. Perrin, Loial, and the Aiel all have minor injuries but Faile stayed uninjured by using her knives from a distance. Then a Fade attacks. Gaul attacks with his spear while Bain and Chiad use bow and arrows. Perrin comes up behind and uses his hammer to end the fight. There are more Trollocs so they rush to exit through the Waygate before another attack.

Perrin hears the Black Wind approaching and urges the group to hurry. Loial opens the Waygate. Faile gallops out and tumbles from her horse due to the time difference. The rest of the party exits, Loial last. As two Trollocs try to follow, they are caught by the Black Wind and pulled back inside. Loial puts the leaf key from the inside on the outside so that the the gate can no longer be opened from the inside.

It is late afternoon in the Mountains of Mist. As Perrin observes a pair of hawks, one of them is pierced by an arrow. When the other descends, it is attacked by a flock of ravens. Reluctantly Perrin sends his thoughts out to communicate with any wolves nearby, to find out about the ravens and whoever shot the arrow. He finds out that there are no wolves nearby despite this being an area with no human presence.





Chapter 28. To the Tower of Ghenjei 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara


Perrin and Gaul set up a camp near the Waygate but separate from Faile, Bain, Chiad and Loial at Faile's insistence. Perrin plans to enter the Wolf Dream and asks Gaul to kick him awake if anything happens. He is still concerned about the ravens he saw after they left the Waygate.

Perrin is in the Wolf Dream and a patch of sky became like a window where he sees visions:



Rand amid swirling stormwinds laughing wildly with small dragons riding on the winds while being watched by hidden eyes
Nynaeve and Elayne walking cautiously through twisted, shadowed buildings hunting some dangerous beast
Mat standing where a road forked, flipping a coin and starting down one branch wearing a wide-brimmed hat and carrying a spear with a short blade
Egwene and a woman with long white hair staring at him in surprise while the White Tower crumbled stone by stone


He calls to Hopper, but gets no response. He takes a step and is surprised to have traveled a long way down the mountain. To get a better view he takes a step to reach the highest peak overlooking the valley. He steps from peak to peak heading toward the Two Rivers but senses no wolves and Hopper still does not answer. Finally he sees a tall dark-haired man in a blue coat with a bow on his back. The scent he gets from the man is cold, not really human. The man sees Perrin and flees. Perrin goes to the spot where the man was and finds a wolf corpse. The chase leads northeast past Watch Hill and across the River Taren. Finally they reach a tower of metal and the man vanishes.

Perrin can find no entrance to the tower, but continues to look. Suddenly he is told to stop by Hopper. Hopper tells him that he was chasing Slayer. Hopper says the tower is evil. Suddenly, a woman comments that this is a dangerous place and says it is the Tower of Ghenjei. She has golden hair in a thick braid with odd clothes, with a glint of silver behind her. When she notices that Perrin has seen the silver, it vanishes. She realizes Perrin is a wolfbrother and that is how he is in Tel'aran'rhiod. She tells Perrin that the tower is a doorway to the realms of the Aelfinn and the Eelfinn, like the game Snakes and Foxes. Perrin knows there is no way to win, but the woman says that is true unless you break the rules. The woman is surprised she is saying so much and deduces it must be because Perrin is ta'veren. Perrin sees the shadow of someone else, but when he looks no one is there. The woman seems to respond to a comment from someone though that she should not be here and she disappears, too. Hopper did not see or hear the woman.

He tells Hopper of the ravens, the Trollocs in the Ways, and the absence of wolves in the Two Rivers. Hopper warns him to stay away from home, then comments that the Last Hunt approaches. Perrin wakes and comments to Gaul that it may be worse in the Two Rivers than he thought. He thinks about the Shadowspawn in the Ways, ravens in the mountains and this Slayer. They must all be related and it does not bode well for his home.



Unanswered Questions[]


What are the precepts that Birgitte violated in talking to Perrin?
What did Slayer do in the Tower of Ghenjei?




Chapter 29. Homecoming 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara


Perrin, Gaul, Loial, Faile, Bain and Chiad spend three days travelling through the Westwood to reach Emond's Field. Perrin and Faile are still not speaking to each other, which exasperates Loial and amuses Gaul. They stop at Tam al'Thor's house and farm only to find all of the buildings burned and no one around. Faile gingerly asks Perrin who lived here, and is relieved to learn that it was Rand's family farm and not Perrin's. Perrin resolves to leave for Emond's Field very early, with Gaul and without Faile, so he can turn himself in to the Whitecloaks before she can interfere.

The two men arrive at the Winespring Inn early and without being seen. Inside, Marin al'Vere and Brandelwyn al'Vere are polishing the inn's silver and pewter and are shocked when they realize who Perrin is. Marin asks after Egwene and Perrin assures her that she is safe. They have received letters from Egwene and Nynaeve telling of their Tower training and their friends Elayne and Min. Perrin introduces Gaul who addresses Marin as roofmistress and gives her a valuable guest gift according to Aiel custom, offering to defend her roof. Bran and Marin then urge Perrin to leave the way he came immediately. The main Whitecloak camp is at Watch Hill, but patrols can be anywhere. Just as he mentions his plan to give himself up, Faile, Bain and Chiad come into the room. Faile tells Perrin he is being an idiot among other things so he tells her the reason they are after him is that he killed two Whitecloaks and they are convinced he is a Darkfriend.

Marin interrupts the argument to calm things down and Faile realizes her lack of manners. They introduce themselves and the Aiel women also give Marin guest gifts and ask to defend her roof. Bran frequently glances out the window, worried. They get settled at a table with clean hands and faces before Bran breaks the news to Perrin that his entire family has been killed. Trollocs killed his family and there are bands roaming in the Two Rivers. Padan Fain ledthe Whitecloaks who burned Tam's farm and also the Cauthons'. Perrin tells them that Fain is a Darkfriend by his own admission. Haral Luhhan and Alsbet Luhhan and Natti Cauthon as well as some of their children have been arrested by the Whitecloaks. Fortunately, Abell Cauthon escaped when Tam was able to warn him. Marin points out that they currently need the Whitecloaks to protect them from the Trollocs, but the Maidens scoff at the safety provided by Whitecloaks and point out that they can defend themselves. Bran says that they are simple farmers and that Lord Luc, a Hunter of the Horn, has talked of organizing the village to fight the Trollocs, but nothing has been done yet. Finally Faile comes to Perrin, holds him and tells him to grieve over his dead family, and he does.





Chapter 30. Beyond the Oak 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara


Faile holds Perrin as he grieves and recalls fond memories of his family. Since his family is dead, there is no longer a point to him giving himself up to the Whitecloaks to protect them. Bran enters and says there is an Ogier in the kitchen. Marin is trying to accommodate Loial and the Aiel while maintaining her composure. Marin tries to get them all to leave the village to avoid getting killed but everyone refuses. Perrin lays out his plan to find Tam and Abell, rescue the prisoners from the Whitecloaks, and eliminate any Trollocs and Shadowspawn that are still around. Marin will guide the party to the old sickhouse in the Westwood to hide out after they meet up on the other side of the village. The Aiel leave separately and have no trouble sneaking away undetected.

Cenn Buie is in the stableyard and starts a rant when he notices Perrin. Marin scolds Cenn firmly and convinces him to keep quiet about Perrin, at least for now. They see the Aiel waiting as they approach the sickhouse and Perrin smells someone ahead. Suddenly two men are standing in their path but Marin tries to keep everyone calm. Perrin realizes they are Warders which must mean there are Aes Sedai. Marin reveals that only the Women's Circle know about them and even Bran, the Mayor, does not. Marin tells Tomas and Ihvon to put down their bows. Ihvon leaves to let the Aes Sedai know of the visitors. Marin explains to Perrin that the Aes Sedai were at Watch Hill when the Whitecloaks came, and the Watch Hill Women's Circle passed them to the Emond's Field Circle to conceal and keep safe from the Whitecloaks. Tomas is disturbed that Marin revealed their presence to Perrin and the others, but Marin assures him that she has good reasons. Perrin is leery of Aes Sedai as well, but at least he knows these must not be Red Ajah if they have Warders. Everyone can only wait tensely for Ihvon to return.





Chapter 31. Assurances 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara


Perrin is waiting with Marin, Faile, the Aiel, and Loial. Ihvon returns and gives the party permission to go into the sickhouse to see the Aes Sedai. The Aiel are impressed at the stealthiness of the Warders. When they arrive Verin Mathwin and Alanna Mosvani are waiting. Marin hastily apologizes and explains why she has brought Perrin's party to them, but Verin agrees that she did the right thing. Verin had been asking about Perrin as well as Mat and Rand. When Alanna asks about Mat and Rand, Perrin challenges her, asking why she is here in the Two Rivers. Egwene had previously warned Perrin that Alanna showed too much interest in Rand, and she is wary of her as a result. Marin takes umbrage at Perrin's rough manner but Verin calms her down, saying that she and Perin are old friends. She takes the opportunity to dismiss Marin before they continue the discussion. Marin tells Perrin to listen to the Aes Sedai before leaving.

After Perrin presses her again, Alanna explains that they are looking for girls who can channel to take to the White Tower. The numbers of Aes Sedai are dwindling and after Moiraine's discovery of several girls in Emond's Field with the spark, it was imperative for them to come to recruit more novices. Aes Sedai had probably not come to the Two Rivers for a thousand years and normally it is very difficult to find multiple girls with the spark. They had only been in Watch Hill for a week when they found five potential novices including one who might have the spark. Then the Whitecloaks arrived and they revealed themselves only to the Women's Circle there.

Perrin accepts the explanation for their visit, but then questions them on why they are hiding instead of doing something about the Whitecloaks or Shadowspawn. Alanna explains that the Three Oaths make it difficult since they can only channel to defend themselves and their Warders. Her Warder Owein was killed by the Whitecloaks but Alanna was not near him at the time. Verin continues, saying they have killed some Trollocs and two Myrddraal but their ability to fight is limited with only two Aes Sedai present.

Alanna notices Perrin's discomfort and Delves him to examine his wounds. Bain explains that they fought Trollocs in the Ways and Loial adds that he locked the Waygate to prevent more Trollocs from entering the Two Rivers. Upon hearing about travel via the Ways, Alanna starts ranting about ta'veren and how the Amyrlin should not have let the three of them roam free unchecked; she thinks the three of them should be bonded. This causes Perrin to pull away immediately but Alanna tells him that she will not break custom so harshly as to bond him against his will. Seeing her expression, Perrin is not all that reassured. She Heals him and then the Aiel as well. The Aiel are satisfied by the Healing and Faile is amused by Perrin's leftover scar on his cheek, calling it a "beauty mark".

Ihvon lets in Tam and Abell who arrive with rabbits they have killed. They are startled to see Loial and Perrin, but Tam recognizes the Aiel immediately. They also ask after Rand and Mat and Perrin says they are in Tear, which catches the notice of Verin who comprehends what that must mean. Tam asks whether Moiraine was right after all, that the Shadowspawn attacked on Winternight to hunt the three of them. Verin gives Perrin a look telling him not to reveal anything in front of Alanna but Perrin cannot bring himself to tell Tam that Rand is the Dragon Reborn in any case. Perrin tells Tam that he'll have to ask Moiraine himself.

Perrin leads Tam and Abell outside to have a private chat. Perrin talks a bit more about their travels, but he avoids talking about how he came to befriend an Ogier or an Aiel. Abell mentions that various animals have been killed in the countryside for no apparent reason and not for food; boot prints were found, but not big enough to be a Trolloc. Perrin realizes it must be Slayer's doing. They discuss trying to rescue the prisoners from the Whitecloaks. Abell explains that he scouted their camp and took an arrow, but fortunately Tam was able to drag him back to the Aes Sedai for Healing. He tells Perrin the camp was just below Watch Hill, with at least seven hundred men. 

Tam explains how bad things have been with the Trollocs in some places like Deven Ride, telling Perrin that the Whitecloaks had practically given the Two Rivers over to the Trollocs except for around Taren Ferry. Tam tells Perrin that it might be difficult to find someone to shelter the girls even if they do rescue them. After expressing his disappointment in the Two Rivers folk for being so callous, Perrin says he will scout the camp himself tomorrow. 



Point of view: Dain Bornhald


Bornhald is returning to Watch Hill. He was ambushed by Trollocs on patrol and lost eleven men and is beginning to wonder why every patrol he leads is attacked. He is about the fact that this is the third patrol he has lead that has meet an organized Trolloc attack, because they avoid all other patrols. The answers he comes up with only worried him more and provided no solitions. He notices that the Tuatha'an are preparing to leave and makes sure they are staying in the Two Rivers. Bornhald considers what he can to do with the prisoners, the Luhhans in particular, to help him catch Perrin Aybara. He observes Ordeith's camp, which is filthy and in disarray by Whitecloak standards.

The two men Bornhald sent to keep an eye on Ordeith were killed in a supposed Trolloc attack and he furiously sends Byar to  get Ordeith. He thinks Ordeith must think him an imbecile to believe such a tale. Bornhald reflects on the unusual behavior of the people of the Two Rivers. Normally scrawling the Dragon's Fang is more than enough to encourage villagers to turn on each other and no doubt any Darkfriends within the village would be swept up by such a move, but the people here simply ignore it. When Ordeith arrives, he tries to sway Bornhald to leave him alone so he can deliver Aybara to him. Bornhald ponders on the cover up he made when Ordeith had the Aybara family killed. Bornhald says expressly that he will not allow Ordeith to murder children which Ordeith claims will draw the Darkfriends out. He dismisses Ordeith angrily, having accomplished nothing. He looks for some brandy even though he rarely drinks.



Point of view: Padan Fain


Ordeith thinks on what plans he needs to make to control Bornhald, on what he might do with the prisoners and on what he did at the Aybara farm. He considers killing Bornhald which would pass command to Jaret Byar who is much more easily controlled. Mordeth has taken over much of Fain and he believes he cannot be killed now. His focus is on killing Rand, but he can tell one of the others is nearby now. Inside his tent he has a Myrddraal chained to the ground. Ordeith reiterates his proposal to the Myrddraal in exchange for the Fade's freedom and the Myrddraal agrees to do what Ordeith tells him to do.





Chapter 32. Questions to Be Asked 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara


The next morning, Verin urges Perrin, along with Tam and Abell, to start moving toward Watch Hill to scout the Whitecloaks camp. Alanna has chosen to not come along. Faile insists on coming as she comments that she wishes to see more of the Two Rivers and that her father raises sheep. This seems to contradict what she previously said about her father but she says that he does many different things. Perrin knows he will have to let Faile come along as they scout the camp, but he refuses to let Loial come due to his very noticeable appearance. Instead he asks Loial to keep an eye on Alanna. Gaul, Bain, and Chiad scout ahead as the party moves out.

The nearby farms are deserted but they head towards Jac al'Seen's farm and plan to stop there for lunch and to rest the horses. Tam estimates there are at least two hundred Trollocs around, probably more. Perrin muses why such the Trollocs have not actually attacked the village yet, as they have enough to attack in the night and leave before the Whitecloaks would realize it. Faile and Verin discuss possible reasons for the Trollocs being around but not attacking. Verin implies that it might be a lure to draw Rand's attention.

Perrin's party is spotted approaching Jac's farm and everyone leaves the yard to hide in the house until they are identified as friends. Jac has taken in the families of Wit al'Seen and Flann Lewin because their farms could not be defended from the Trollocs, so Jac's farm is overflowing with al'Seens and Lewins. As Perrin observes the crowd around him he finds that Faile is gazing at Wil al'Seen, the same way girls always seem to stare at the handsome fellow. Perrin greets him amiably while holding Faile and resting his hand on his axe. Wil gets the message and drifts off.

The Two Rivers folk gather around the three strangers, Verin, Tomas and Faile. They identify Faile as a lady but do not know what to make of Verin who uses Moiraine's earlier cover story, implying that she is traveling to gather stories. As for Tomas, they think he is either a Whitecloak or a lord. One boy mentions Warders before the adults quickly dismiss his idea. Some of the Lewins and al'Seens encourage Verin and Faile to leave soon and head to a village, since it isn't safe in the countryside.

Jac al'Seen ask Perrin why the Whitecloaks are accusing him, Mat, and Rand of being Darkfriends. Adine Lewin relates that she heard about Rand and Mat running off with a dozen Aes Sedai who kidnapped Egwene. Wit corrects her immediately, saying that he spoke with Marin who clarified that Egwene left of her own accord and there was only one Aes Sedai. Perrin doesn't know why Rand and Mat are being accused but he admits to killing Whitecloaks because they killed a "friend" of his and would have killed him too. Verin points out that the one thing Whitecloaks are good at is making neighbors suspicious of each other. Perrin mentions that Padan Fain is with the Whitecloaks which Jac confirms and Perrin flatly states that he is actually a Darkfriend. Adine does not believe it but Tomas asks her why she might believe the Whitecloaks who came and burned their neighbors' farms but not Perrin whom they have known since he was born. Jac and his wife agree that Perrin is no Darkfriend and is welcome to stay at their farm, but Perrin says he has things to do. They offer everybody lamb stew with bread for lunch. As they are finishing up, a boy comes in announcing Lord Luc is approaching.





Chapter 33. A New Weave in the Pattern 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara


Lord Luc arrogantly enters the al'Seen farmhouse and Perrin despises him on sight. Luc is startled when he sees Verin, for he recognizes her as an Aes Sedai, although he does not say anything. He appears shocked to see Perrin, as if he recognizes him. Perrin and Flann Lewin begin a discussion on how safe it is at the farm house and how good Lord Luc's suggestions on defending themselves are. Perrin suggests instead that they leave the farm and gather at Emond's Field so they don't have to hope Whitecloaks will be nearby if Trollocs come again. If they continue to depend on the Whitecloaks, they have to endure their questioning and allow them to arrest whomever they want, but if everyone gathers together they will be safer. A heated discussion starts but Perrin points out that the Trollocs are attacking farms where there are people, not deserted farms. The farms won't be disturbed if they are abandoned.

Lord Luc leaves without a grand exit. Jac and the others decide Perrin's advice is good, so they gather their belongs and the cattle and leave for Emond's Field. They say they will also talk with other farmer's in the area and suggest they do the same. Verin believes the decision by the farmers to leave was because Perrin is ta'veren, which fascinates her. She mentions Rand, another ta'veren and asks Perrin whether Rand has the sword and he sees no reason not to tell her. Verin warns Perrin about Alanna, but doesn't provide specifics on what she might do.

Faile asks Perrin to forgive her for her actions with Wil al'Seen and Lord Luc. Perrin asks her to forgive him for the things he said to try to keep her from coming to the Two Rivers. He wonders if Faile's father worked for a noblewoman, given what she says and how she reacts.

Several young men decide to go with Perrin to scout the Whitecloak camp. Wil al'Seen is one along with his cousin Ban, Tell Lewin, and Dannil Lewin. Although they are all a bit older than Perrin, they look to him for leadership. When Gaul, Bain, and Chiad appear there is almost a fight until Perrin can get everyone calmed down. Perrin decides to stop at the Torfinn farm and the family takes his suggestion to leave without hesitation. They continue to stop at farms and succeed in convincing the residents to leave. More young men to join their party despite Perrin's wish to keep things quiet. Wil and some of the other young men squabble over leadership and rank and finally Perrin has had enough and yells to impress on them the seriousness of the situation. He tells them to stay organized, focused and following orders. He then divides them into two groups led by Dannil and Ban. This impresses Faile and Tomas while Verin simply observes with great interest.

When they are close to Watch Hill, they begin walking the horses to attract less attention. Perrin issues orders for everyone to remain as stealthy as possible. Faile asks Perrin whether he used to be a soldier as he reminds him of some of her father's guards, but Perrin says that he has only seen soldiers talk as such. They scout the encampment which has hundreds of Whitecloaks. Perrin sees a second, smaller camp which is much more disorganized. Perrin needs some time to come up with a plan and so he asks Tam to settle down the young men and see if they brought rations to eat. Abruptly he realizes he is giving orders to someone older and more experienced and apologizes. Tam is not offended and tells Perrin he has followed younger men before when they knew what had to be done.

Verin observes that even though Perrin is not shifting the world under his feet like Rand is, Perrin is surely causing great changes to the Two Rivers. Perrin says he means only to rescue the prisoners, not cause wholesale changes to the Two Rivers. Faile asks if he means to rescue the prisoners that night, and Perrin knows he must do it now or it will only get harder and more risky. Word of his presence in the Two Rivers will reach Whitecloak ears soon and there is no way to predict what they will do with the prisoners when they do. The Aiel will help and Perrin decides to let Faile go, too, rather than have a confrontation. They eat a meal while hiding in the bushes and wait for nightfall. They wait and watch as the number of lights in the camp and nearby Watch Hill dwindle.

Perrin gathers Tam, Faile, Verin, and the Aiel around him to outline his plan. Tam is to keep everyone ready to leave, awaiting only the return with the prisoners. He will lead them to a nearby abandoned farmhouse to hide from the inevitable Whitecloak pursuit. Perrin asks the Aiel not to kill any Whitecloaks if possible, as to not inflame tensions. The Aiel are amused at this prospect and nod as they disappear into the underbrush. Verin cautions Perrin to be careful, as being ta'veren does not mean that he cannot be harmed or killed. Perrin asks if Tomas can help but she implies that she has a different task for him.

Perrin, Faile and the Aiel sneak into the Whitecloak camp and make their way to the tent where the prisoners are held. On the way a Whitecloak attacks Perrin but Faile knocks him out with a piece of firewood. Perrin takes the cloak to use as a disguise. The Aiel easily take care of the guards before they can make a sound. They reach the tent and wake up Haral Luhhan, Alsbet Luhhan, Natti Cauthon, Eldrin Cauthon, and Bodewhin Cauthon. After getting everyone awake, they head for the picket lines, needing horses to get away from the camp quickly. When they rejoin the others they split up with the former prisoners moving away quietly, while Perrin and the rest noisily lead the Whitecloaks away. Perrin asks Verin if she can do anything and she comments that it might rain quite heavily in half an hour. As they escape Wil asks Perrin what is next and Perrin announces that they will hunt Trollocs.





Chapter 34. He Who Comes With the Dawn 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor


Rand and Mat climb back toward the camp on the slopes of Chaendaer above Rhuidean, wounded and tired from their fight with the bubble of evil. Dawn is just arriving and they hope to reach camp before the blistering heat of day reaches them, but Rand doesn't think they will make it. He ponders the prophecy that he will bind the Aiel and destroy them. He knows he needs the Aiel who will hopefully follow him without trying to manipulate him or use him as a path to power or fortune. As they reach the camp, Couladin confronts them, accusing them of murdering Muradin. He and two others throw spears and Rand and Mat. Rand channels his sword and Mat uses the ashandarei to deflect the spears.

Bair hurries down the slope to stop the fight, then tells Rand to show them the signs. Rand is momentarily confused but then he remembers. He loosens the left sleeve of his shirt and sees that the dragon of a clan chief on his arm is indeed there. Egwene, Amys, Melaine, and Seana come out of the tents. Bair tells Rand to show all the signs, then pulls back the sleeve on his other arm which shows a second dragon, making him the Car'a'carn, chief of chiefs. The Wise Ones look both relieved and fearful at the same time. Rand recalls the passage from the Prophecies of the Dragon; twice and twice shall he be marked. Along with the herons branded into his palms, the dragons form the second set of markings. Bair announces him to the assembled Aiel as the Car'a'carn, He Who Comes with the Dawn. Couladin turns around and angrily stalks back to his tent and the Shaido follow him. The Taardad disperse as well, leaving only Rhuarc. Mat cannot believe it and can only drink from the proffered water pouch before giving it to Rand.

Egwene asks what happened to them but Bair interjects, saying that it is forbidden to speak of what happens in Rhuidean to anyone except others who also have gone. Rand asks for Moiraine so she can heal Mat and himself. She, like Aviendha, is in Rhuidean still and they have all been gone for seven days. Rand is shocked that so much time has passed as many things could have happened in seven days. He cannot give his enemies time to plan and outmaneuver him. Lan regrets that he did not follow Moiraine, but the Wise Ones prevented him from going.

Rand asks Rhuarc what he saw in Rhuidean in case Moiraine had modified his visions somehow. The Wise Ones object to the discussion again but Rand insists, saying he will be changing many customs. Rhuarc agrees that change is coming and confirms that everyone sees visions of their ancestors in the glass columns. Rand asks about the sharing of water mentioned by Rhuarc who explains that it was the ancestors of the Cairhienin who gave the Aiel water freely when nobody else would do so. Rand reflects on the effect on the timeline - the Cairhienin shared water with the Aiel which led to the Avendoraldera sapling being given as a peace offering. This in turn allowed Laman Damodred to cut it down and start the Aiel War which allowed Rand to be born on the slopes of Dragonmount as foretold by prophecy.

Mat is patched up by the Wise Ones in their tent since they don't know healing weaves. Melaine wishes to see the wound in Rand's side but he says there is nothing that can be done since even Moiraine can not heal it. Rand asks Rhuarc how to go about informing the other clans that there is a chief of chief. Rhuarc says they should arrange to meet at Alcair Dal, a traditional meeting place for the clans. Mat comments that the name means golden bowl, unknowingly confirming that he speaks the Old Tongue fluently now. The Wise One Dreamwalkers will inform the chiefs in their dreams which is much faster than sending messengers.

Rand asks for information about his mother and Amys tells him some of Shaiel's story, how she came to the Waste. Shaiel came to the Waste because of a Foretelling by Gitara Moroso, even though she had to abandon her son. Through sheer determination, she was able to become a Maiden of the Spear and was adopted into the Chumai sept of the Taardad. Rand realizes he has a half-brother somewhere. Janduin was Rand's father, clan chief of the Taardad over twenty years ago. He was a great leader who made peace among many clans and might have united them all had it not been necessary to cross the Dragonwall to hunt for Laman. Janduin led four clans over the Dragonwall and took Shaiel with him. She became pregnant in the third year and should have been sent back to the Three-fold Land, but Janduin could not make her do it. After she was lost in the battle near Tar Valon, he fell into utter despair. Taking the unprecedented step of resigning his role as clan chief, he went with a Shadowspawn hunting party into the Blight and did not return. Those who came back said he was killed by a man who looked like Shaiel, whom he would not defend himself against.

Rand lays down to watch Rhuidean for any sign of Moiraine returning. He feels the time passing - time when he should be moving, so the Forsaken can't anticipate him. He asks the Wise Ones why they are helping him when it is foretold that he will destroy the Aiel. Bair clarifies the Prophecy of Rhuidean; although Rand will break the Aiel, a remnant of a remnant will survive. Were it not for Rand, the Aiel would be lost completely. Aviendha finally returns and looks at him with hostility. Late in the day Moiraine finally appears. Rand contemplates his next move, which he hopes will surprise everyone.





Chapter 35. Sharp Lessons 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere


Elayne is in Tel'aran'rhiod garbed as the Sea Folk are while away from shore when Egwene appears. Egwene tells Elayne what has happened at Rhuidean and that Rand has plans that he won't share with anyone. Elayne mentions that the Sea Folk believe Rand is their Coramoor and Coine is spreading the word to other Sea Folk vessels as they travel toward Tanchico. They are only two or three days from making it to the port city. Elayne lets slip that some of the Windfinders can channel and Egwene confirms that some Wise Ones can too, Aviendha among them. Elayne is trying to tell Egwene about her letters to Rand when suddenly Egwene is yanked out of Tel'aran'rhiod.

Egwene becomes furious with Amys for taking her away from the meeting, but Amys is just as furious that Egwene did not keep her word to not go to Tel'aran'rhiod alone. Amys blocks Egwene from the Source, hangs her by her feet, and appears to transform into a terrible reptile in a dream before letting Egwene come fully awake. Amys threatens to stop teaching Egwene until Egwene promises not to break her word again. As punishment Egwene must braid her hair as a Aiel child does. After Egwene waits patiently without protest, Amys agrees to accompany her to future meetings with Elayne or Nynaeve.

Amys takes Egwene to a meeting with the other Wise Ones, Aviendha, and Moiraine. They discuss Rand and how they can maximize the number of Aiel who survive. The Wise Ones wish to have an Aiel close to Rand to guide and teach him Aiel customs, so that he does not offend any of the chiefs. The Wise Ones also need to know what he will do in advance so that they can plan accordingly. They discuss whether Egwene or Moiraine can learn about his plans but the two doubt he will confide in them, and Melaine points out flatly that their motives are not exactly aligned with those of the Aes Sedai in any case. Aviendha is chosen and is furious at the prospect, but won't say why. Aviendha protests mightily and the Wise Ones threaten many punishments until Egwene soothes her and asks her to do it on her and Elayne's behalf. She agrees and Egwene passes on Elayne's message about the letters.

Egwene asks Moiraine about what she saw in Rhuidean but Moiraine only gives a cryptic response, saying she was already aware of some things that she saw. She mentions her life's work of finding and aiding the Dragon Reborn, a quest that she will see to its end, no matter the cost. Her voice has an air of finality to it.





Chapter 36. Misdirections 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor


Rand and Rhuarc and the Aiel who follow him, the Taardad clan, break camp. The Shaido leave also and follow a parallel course, since their home is in the same direction. The Wise Ones travel in between the two parties. Despite the Peace of Rhuidean covering the safety of anyone heading toward or away from Rhuidean, the situation is tense and the Taardad are poised for attack from the Shaido. It may only be the presence of the Wise Ones in the middle that prevents it. Couladin should have waited another day to see if Muradin would return, even if Rand observed him committing suicide. Leaving early meant that Couladin was abandoning Muradin.

There is more vegetation in the main body of the Waste compared to the slopes of Chaendaer, but everywhere the land is littered with stone, rock and various jagged mountains. It appears the Breaking had a much bigger impact on this area than the rest of the world. Aviendha met Rand when he left the tent in the morning but she is far from friendly. Aviendha berates him over how he treated Elayne and mentions that her two letters should make it clear how she feels about him. This confuses Rand greatly since the two letters contradicted each other. Aviendha repeatedly tries to convince Rand that Elayne is the woman for him.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon


Mat is glad that Aviendha is focused on Rand and not himself. His wounds still sting, but he refused healing from Moiraine and will just put up with the discomfort. Mat wonders whether he can leave now that his requirement to visit Rhuidean has been met, but he knows that he would have to test it by actually trying to leave. The Wise Ones are keeping a close eye on Rand with Melaine even joining Moiraine on her horse so they can talk.

Dorindha brings word to Rhuarc that there are peddlers ahead, heading this way. There are eighteen wagons, two are boxes on wheels for accommodations, two carries water and the rest are typical peddler's wagons. The leader of the peddlers is Hadnan Kadere. He claims to be looking for Cold Rocks Hold and pales visibly when he finds out he is nearing Rhuidean where he is forbidden to go. Rhuarc is surprised that he managed to come so far into the Aiel Waste without being spotted. Rhuarc tells Hadnan to travel with the Taardad to Cold Rocks Hold. Couladin objects since the Shaido is the larger party, but he has no right to argue because he is not actually a clan chief.

Mat offers to buy Kadere's hat for a gold mark and a nearby woman accepts the deal. Keille Shaogi introduces herself. She is ugly and fat but has a melodious voice. She then orders Kadere around. Rand mutters to Mat about Kadere's eyes which never change despite his outward expression. Rand says that Kadere is likely evil and laughs at his current situation, where he is watched by Moiraine, the Wise Ones and probably even Lanfear. Mat thinks that perhaps Rand is close to madness now and wonders if he can follow the peddlers out of the Waste and away from Rand.





Chapter 37. Imre Stand 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor


Rhuarc tells Rand that they will camp at Imre Stand, which is only a mile ahead. Rand would like to travel farther before stopping but Aviendha scornfully tells him they must camp where there is water if possible. The peddlers also have a hard time traveling late in the day due to the shadows on the broken terrain. Rand believes Aviendha is wearing a dress to spy on him and does not realize she is an apprentice to the Wise Ones now instead of a Maiden. Rand is surprised the Wise Ones are not looking at him but rather they are huddled with Egwene around Moiraine who is holding something sparkling in her hand. Lan is riding a bit further back, seemingly having been sent away.

Scouts bring word to Rhuarc and the Shaido that something is wrong at Imre Stand. Rhuarc tells Adelin to pass the message to the Wise Ones, but Mat observes that they seem to already know. Rand sees that the Wise Ones have suddenly become very animated and Egwene is looking straight at him. Aviendha tells Rand that it was probably a raid by another clan. Rhuarc leads the Taardad at a run while Rand rides at a brisk walk and Mat trails behind. Imre Stand appears deserted except for a few goats and that is very unusual, even after a raid. The residents appear to have been slaughtered and Mat believes it was Trollocs. Aviendha disagrees since Trollocs do not come into the Waste except in the far north.

Kadere leads Isendre to the blood-soaked rooms, then she leads Kadere over to talk to Rand. Aviendha then chides Rand for looking at Isendre. Rand goes to Lan to work sword forms so he can get away from Aviendha. Rand asks Lan about how the Aiel fight and Lan shares some of what he knows of their tactics and how to counter them. Aviendha butts in and dismisses Lan's tactics. Rhuarc disagrees and acknowledges that Borderlanders have indeed fought the Aiel with some success in the past. Rhuarc finally lectures Aviendha about how she talks to Rand and what her obligations will be as a Wise One. Rand realizes that Aviendha is now learning to become a Wise One and can probably channel. Rhuarc then asks Rand if he wishes to learn the spear and Rand immediately agrees, as he wishes to know as much about the Aiel as possible. The Aiel are Rand's people even though he does not know them.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon


Mat observes the Aiel trading with the peddlers. Much of the loot from Tear is traded for various objects such as cloth, books and alcohol. Heirn even asks for Two Rivers tabac but there is none available. As he sits, his mind wanders to battlefield tactics with crossbows. The holes in his memory before he went to Rhuidean are now filled with memories of dances, cities, battles, like a hundred different memories from a hundred different men. He also realizes he is fluent in the Old Tongue, not just the occasional lapses in speech he had before.

Jasin Natael comes over and catches Mat talking to himself in the Old Tongue. Natael mutters about the Aiel, saying that they are not what he expected at all. Natael begins to question him about Rand and his travels, supposedly as a bard collecting stories. Natael is especially interested in what Mat saw in Rhuidean and tries to get every detail. Mat skips over the ter'angreal (especially the twisted redstone doorframe) and the bubble of evil and only talks reluctantly about the buildings and Avendesora. Natael is particularly interested in the fog that surrounds the city. Keille comes over and she and Natael argue as they leave. Natael seems to win the argument. After a supper of roasted goat Rhuarc asks Natael for a song, startling him. Natael then brings out his harp and sings an epic song of a battle long ago that involved Manetheren. Mat is shocked to realize he remembers the battle and that it did not end the way the song portrays.

Suddenly a horde of Trollocs with some Myrddraal attack. The Aiel immediately engage them and Mat fights with his ashandarei. His new memories seem to help him wield the weapon. Several times he is about to suffer a mortal wound but Aiel spears or arrows take out the attacker. Periodically the silver foxhead medallion on his chest goes cold, but he barely notices. After the Trollocs are dead, Rand comes over to check on Mat, trailed by Aviendha with a spear. Rhuarc notices that the bulk of the Trollocs attacked the Taardad, with only a cursory number attacking the Wise Ones and Shaido, seemingly to prevent them from assisting the Taardad. Rand tells Rhuarc that enemies will always follow in his wake.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor


Moiraine checks on Rand but he was uninjured in the attack. Moiraine also comments that the attack was focused on Rand. Rand heads to his tent to sleep, with Aviendha still following. She is outside his tent when he wakes in the morning.





Chapter 38. Hidden Faces 






Point of view: Egeanin Tamarath


Egeanin is at the Garden of Silver Breezes waiting for a report by Floran Gelb. Gelb delivers an a'dam he found, his third one, which Egeanin pays for. Once Gelb kidnapped a suspected sul'dam but he was incorrect and Egeanin had to have the lady shipped across the ocean by the Seanchan courier boats which are still arriving on a regular basis, delivering her gold and providing services. The alternative would have been killing the woman. Gelb tries to get more money out of her and offers a rumor about the investiture of the new Panarch but Egeanin declines. After she dismisses Gelb, she sees a Sea Folk raker enter the harbor. As she gets up to leave she spots Bayle Domon and decides to wait for him to leave so he won't spot her, although she realizes it is very unlikely he will recognize her while she is wearing a mask in the Tarabon fashion. As she is leaving she sees Jaichim Carridin entering.

Egeanin returns to her residence in a palanquin surrounded by guards. She looks around at the worn masses and the general desperation of the city which concerns her. She actually started donating to a soup kitchen using some of the money from the courier boats which she has no right to do and would be punished severely if found out, but she cannot help it. She burns with impatience for the Seanchan armies to return and restore proper order in this place, and cannot understand why the High Lady Suroth continues to wait and do nothing substantial.



Point of view: Jaichim Carridin


Carridin is in a meeting with noblemen from Tarabon, including King Andric. All of them are wearing masks. He still hasn't carried out the orders from the Myrddraal and members of his family are disappearing or being killed, one per month. Carridin has been asked to help restore order to the city and he is negotiating to get the best terms for Pedron Niall. Andric, the King, hidden behind a mask, finally gives the assurances that Carridin seeks. Carridin will secure the Panarch's palace so that Amathera can be invested as the new Panarch.

After he returns to his residence, Jaichim finds Liandrin waiting for him with orders. He is afraid Liandrin is there to kill him for failing to kill Rand al'Thor, whom he has failed locate. He pleads that he still has nephews, nieces, and a sister alive that should die before he does. Instead, she tells him he is to take over the Panarch's Palace and send the Panarch's Legion away.



Point of view: Liandrin


Following her meeting with Carridin, Liandrin dreams of the day she will occupy the King's Palace. She enters the merchant's house where the eleven Black Ajah sisters are staying. There she finds Gyldin sweeping the entryway. In the withdrawing room, Eldrith Jhondar, Marillin Gemalphin, Jeaine Caide, Asne Zeramene, and Rianna Andomeran are busy with their own activities. They are searching for a means to control Rand and believe it to be in the Panarch's Palace somewhere. 



Point of view: Egeanin Tamarath


Egeanin enters her house and confronts an intruder using a hidden mini-crossbow. The intruder shows a token, then a tattoo that he is a Seeker for Truth. The Seeker serves High Lady Suroth and is checking on the progress of those like Egeanin who were left behind. He wishes any sul'dam Egeanin finds to disappear rather than try to return them to Seanchan. He then asks for any military intelligence she has.

She goes to the basement where Bethamin, the only sul'dam she has captured, is leashed by an a'dam. Egeanin has found out that sul'dam can channel even though the Empire uses them to control women that can channel. She decides she needs to somehow confirm if all sul'dam can channel and ponder what she will do with the information, since it will create a huge upheaval within the Empire.





Chapter 39. A Cup of Wine 



Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne, Nynaeve, Thom, and Juilin arrive at the Tanchico docks aboard Wavedancer. Coine, the Sailmistress of Wavedancer will be sailing to Sea Folk ports to spread word of the Coramoor. As they walk down the dock Bayle Domon spots Nynaeve and rushes off his ship to greet her. He promised to wait for her in Falme, but when she didn't come he finally had to leave without her and he was unsure of her fate. Bayle boasts of his successful shipping and smuggling enterprises and how he evades taxes.

Domon recommends the Three Plum Court and arranges an escort so they can arrive safely. Tanchico is a very dangerous place at the moment. After dinner, Nynaeve tells Domon that they are hunting the Black Ajah and may need his help. He mutters about 'Falme all over again'. He considers taking his ships back to Illian, but Nynaeve mentions that the Forsaken Sammael rules there now, which changes his mind. After discussing plans and sharing information, Nynaeve heads off to bed, Juilin goes out into the city while Thom and Elayne head to the common room of their inn. Thom begins to perform while Elayne sips from a cup of wine. A solicitous servant keeps the wine cup full.

Elayne listens to Thom perform and believes she has heard him before. She does not realize how much she has drunk and that she is inebriated when Thom finally finishes and goes off to bed. Elayne goes to his room. In slurred tones, she tells Thom that she finally remembers sitting on his knee when she was little, and that her mother did the same. Thom explains that he was the court-bard to Morgase but does not explain why he left and he hopes Elayne will forget again by morning. Back in the room, Nynaeve recognizes Elayne's condition and dunks her head in a bucket of water. Elayne then helps Nynaeve prepare to go to tel'aran'rhiod and see if Egwene is there. They've tried each night since Egwene left abruptly but have not seen her since.

Point of view: Nynaeve al'Meara

Nynaeve is in the Stone of Tear and calling for Egwene. When she gets no response, she ponders on where Egwene might be and thinks of Rhuidean. Suddenly she is in the Waste overlooking the fog-shrouded city. She spies a man down near the fog barrier to the city. A woman speaks to her, telling her she must get away quickly or the man will kill her. She turns and sees a woman who looks exactly the way Birgitte is described in the stories. Birgitte chases her off and she finds herself in Emond's Field. She sees a man who strangely looks very much like Lan, but he raises a bow and shoots an arrow at her.

Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne bandages Nynaeve where the arrow nicked her. They decide to go to bed. In the morning Elayne has a hangover and Nynaeve concocts a vile brew to help cure her of it. Thom comes downstairs and Elayne pretends to not remember learning his history. Juilin joins them and shares out the information he came up with during the night. A competition springs up between Thom and Juilin to find the Black Ajah sisters first.

When Elayne proposes to go out looking also, Thom and Juilin try to discourage her. Nynaeve has arranged disguises for her and Elayne to make it more difficult for Liandrin to figure out who might be looking for her. Elayne reminds herself that they must also find the item that the Black Ajah seeks, that will bind Rand so he can be used by them.





Chapter 40. Hunter of Trollocs 



Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Six days have passed since the rescue of Emond's Field villagers from the Whitecloaks. Perrin is reflecting on what has happened since while he rests in the apple orchard where his slain family was laid to rest. Dannil tells Perrin that Faile and Lord Luc have arrived. To Perrin, Luc smells cold and inhuman. Faile informs him that he has a title now: the people of the Two Rivers are calling him Perrin Goldeneyes. His group killed over thirty Trollocs a few days ago, and later forty-one more and a Myrddraal.

Luc is recommending they all return to Emond's Field, but Perrin says he intends to continue hunting for Trollocs. Gaul, Bain, and Chiad return with news of a band of Trollocs that can be ambushed. Lord Luc leaves but Faile decides to stay with the hunters. They head south for two hours about seventy strong. As they wait to spring the trap they suddenly find themselves in a trap with the Trollocs coming at them from behind. Perrin shoots an arrow at a Trolloc and kills it but not before its own arrow takes him in the side. After Perrin kills two more Trollocs, a Fade appears. He slips while fighting the Fade but Ihvon arrives and takes off its head. When all of the men are gathered together again, twenty-seven are dead. They head out of the Waterwood with the wounded riding the horses and the Aiel scouting ahead. As they leave the Waterwood, they hear music coming from nearby.





Chapter 41. Among the Tuatha'an 



Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin and the Two Rivers lads he leads were ambushed by Trollocs. The survivors, many wounded approach the Tuatha'an wagons. The Aiel will not approach those they call the 'Lost Ones' and leave to make their own camp. Perrin is surprised to see that the Tinker's leader is Raen, the same man he met with Elyas Machera. Raen, his wife Ila, and the other Tinkers help bandage and poultice the wounded. Perrin tries to convince Raen to move his group to Emond's Field, but avoiding villages is too ingrained in the Tinker way of life.

Ila is not skilled enough to remove the arrow in Perrin's side. Faile assures her there is someone in Emond's Field that can do this, if they can keep Perrin alive to reach there. Ila and Faile bandage Perrin's wound, then Ila leaves to sleep under the wagon with Raen. Perrin begins to chastise himself over his poor leadership that let twenty-seven of his folk get killed. Faile tries to reassure him with a couple of quotes from her father, but it doesn't work. Aram enters and comments on Perrin's eyes and the relationship to wolves. He then asks after Egwene. Perrin is rude to him and tells him to go away.

Perrin finally asks Faile who her father is. She responds, Davram of House Bashere; Lord of Bashere, Tyr, and Sidona; Guardian of the Blightborder; Defender of the Heartland; Marshal-General to Queen Tenobia of Saldaea; and Tenobia's uncle. As this begins to sink in, Perrin realizes Faile is a Lady. Faile explains that as heir to her father she had a duty to learn how to manage the estates, but found it dull, so she ran away to be a Hunter of the Horn. Faile then asks Perrin what Aram meant about running with wolves.

So Perrin explains how he came to have golden eyes, better senses, and talk with wolves. Faile finally gets him to drink the sleeping draft and he falls asleep.





Chapter 42. A Missing Leaf 



Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin is in the Wolf Dream after Faile forced him to take a sleeping draft. He examines farmhouses south of Emond's Field to see if people have left. He spots ravens in the Westwood and follows in five-mile strides. He stops at the Waygate, noticing that there is only one leaf on this side of the Waygate instead of twothe Waygate is no longer locked. Suddenly the Waygate is open. After a few more minutes, a leaf appears on the inside of the Waygate and they close. Something just entered or left by the Waygate and Perrin has no doubts it is more Trollocs arriving.

A sense of being watched is all the warning he has to avoid an arrow that would have pierced him. He begins a deadly game of hide and seek with Slayer. He spots Slayer below him and notices the Borderland cut of his clothes and a strange resemblance to Lan. Slayer talks to Perrin, telling him that many Trollocs died due to the locked Waygate, victims of Machin Shin. But now they are coming through to harry the Two Rivers until Perrin is dead. Perrin realizes that Slayer is trying to lure him into a trap so instead he deliberately wakes from the Wolf Dream.

Perrin tells Faile of the open Waygate but she is insistent that he will be taken to Emond's Field to be healed. As Faile and Ila dress him, he comments on Ila's fine needlework that mended his shirt. She replies that it was Faile that did the mending. Faile blushes because she'd previously told Perrin that she would never mend his clothes for him. Perrin again tries to convince Raen to come to Emond's Field but fails.

When they arrive at Emond's Field they find the area greatly changed. Trees have been cut down and a palisade of sharpened stakes is being erected around the village. They are also constructing catapults and have six ready. As they enter the village everyone seems to be admiring Perrin and calling him Goldeneyes. When he reaches the village green a flag has been raised with a red wolf's head on a white background, the Wolf-Head Banner. Verin examines his wound and remarks that he needs Alanna for Healing.





Chapter 43. Care for the Living 



Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Verin leads Stepper, with Perrin riding, to the Winespring Inn so Alanna can heal him. On the way he can hear calls from relatives of the young men that did not survive the Trolloc attack. He is carried into the inn and then must wait while Ihvon finds Alanna. Verin makes notes in her book while they wait. Perrin's friends, Elam Dowtry, Dav Ayellin, and Ewin Finngar bombard him with questions about what the world outside is like and he answers some. Tam and Abell come in as Ewin asks where Rand and Mat are. Perrin provides the crowd with some general information on what Rand and Mat are up to, but avoids anything that might lead to the Dragon Reborn.

Loial arrives and Perrin tells him that the Waygate is being used by Trollocs again, despite it having been locked. Perrin plans to go with Loial after he is Healed. Faile discovers that Perrin is burning up just as Alanna arrives. Alanna examines Perrin and then has him carried to the kitchen by Loial. She explains that the Healing will be very difficult and might fail. Perrin faints from the pain.





Chapter 44. The Breaking Storm 



Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin wakes up in a bed in the Winespring Inn the morning after he was Healed by Alanna. Faile slept on a chair in the room and tells him he needs to rest in bed for two or three more days. Perrin senses that she is evading telling him something. When he persists, she admits that Loial and Gaul left earlier that morning, gone to deal with the open Waygate. Perrin starts getting dressed to go after them and Faile tries to stop him. They are still arguing as Perrin exits the room with Faile vainly trying to hold him back by the arm. As Perrin takes the first step going down the stairs, his leg fails to hold him and they both roll down to the bottom.

Faile tries to convince Perrin that he can not do everything and that it is his responsibility to stay in the village and lead. Outside a shout of "Trollocs!" is heard and Perrin insists on going out to see what is happening. Perrin finally gets his way to go outside but Faile gets a promise from him to stay on his horse and not try to fight. There was only one Trolloc but then Bain and Chiad come in from scouting and say that there are as many as five hundred preparing to attack.

Perrin talks to Bran, Tam, and Abell about the imminent attack. Bran shouts out to the villagers to get to their places. Tam arranges the archers while Ban, Tell, and the other companions from the Trolloc hunting gather around Perrin with a Wolf-Head Banner on a staff. Perrin would like to send Faile back to the Inn but realizes it would not work. At three hundred paces the archers begin their volleys and the catapults are fired. They are able to kill all of the Trollocs and three Fades before they reach the walls and the villagers let out a loud cheer and give Perrin the credit for leading them to victory.

As Tam and Tomas examine the field of battle they conclude that this was a test, not a true effort to succeed with the attack. Suddenly there are shouts and a clamor from the south of the village.





Chapter 45. The Tinker's Sword 










Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin and Faile rush to the south of Emond's Field in response to shouts of Trollocs attacking. Cenn Buie, Hari Coplin, Darl Coplin, and Bili Congar are in high spirits after successfully defending the village. That is until Perrin spies one of the attackers and tells them that it is Tinkers, not Trollocs. Raen and Ila survived along with about twenty other adults plus some children. Some residents are prejudiced against the Tinkers but Perrin angrily tells them that all will be accepted.

As the Tinkers file past into the village, Perrin notices all of the smoke he can see from farms burning in the area. He starts trying to guess how many Trollocs it would have taken to start all of the fires as well as attack the Tuatha'an. Perrin is about to head off after Loial and Gaul to destroy the Waygate when Haral Luhhan asks him a question. Before he can do anything, he has a constant stream of people asking his advice that prevents him from getting away. Perrin provides practical solutions to all the issues that have arisen (usually by asking each person what they think they should do).

Luc arrives with a Myrddraal head and a tale of defeating a band of Trollocs by himself. Perrin is finally exhausted from trying to respond to all the questions. He hasn't had anything to eat yet and it is almost noon so he heads to the Winespring Inn to get something to eat. Natti Cauthon is making bandages while keeping on eye on her daughters Bode and Eldrin Cauthon, who are attracted to Aram. When Faile comes in from the kitchen, he complains about how the Two Rivers residents are treating him. She tells him they are just trying to sort out how to treat a Lord and that if he brings the Two Rivers back into the fold of Andor's domain, Queen Morgase will likely make him a Lord; Perrin of House Aybara, Lord of the Two Rivers.

Aram suddenly asks who owns the spears and swords. Perrin tells him they are for anyone that needs a weapon, and assures him no one will hurt him with them. Aram wanders around the room for a bit while Perrin is being fed by Faile. He finally stops and pulls a sword out of the barrel and asks if he can use it. Ila sees him and tries to wrest away the sword from him. Perrin tells her that Aram has a right to defend himself. Perrin tells Aram to find Tam al'Thor and ask to be taught. Many of the women in the room look sad, though Perrin cannot decipher why.

A company of Whitecloaks arrives at Emond's Field, with Dain Bornhald in command. Bornhald announces that Taren Ferry has been almost completely wiped out, although some crossed the river. The Whitecloaks lost fifty men during the fight. The news seems to surprise Luc and he asks Bornhald if Ordeith was at Taren Ferry last night. From Bornhald's reaction to the question, Ordeith probably was. Bornhald declares Perrin under arrest and that he will be taken back to Amador to be tried. Bran says there will be no arrests without proof. Seeing that Bornhald is on the verge of ordering an attack, Perrin proposes a compromise, that the Whitecloaks take refuge in the village and help with defending against the Trollocs. Perrin does not wish men to fight men when the Trollocs are the current menace.





Chapter 46. Veils 






Point of view: Egeanin Sarna


Egeanin is following Floran Gelb to find out if he has really found a sul'dam that fled from Falme. Gelb has kidnapped three women recently that were not sul'dam. With eight men he sets up an ambush for Nynaeve and begins waiting for her to arrive. Egeanin sees Nynaeve and Elayne walking up the street and sees a vague resemblance between Nynaeve and Surine except Surine is taller. She moves toward Gelb to warn him off.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand


Elayne complains to Nynaeve that they should have hired bearers to move through the crowd. She dismisses the idea, preferring to use her own feet even if they may need to use the barrel staves they carry. They discuss the meeting Elayne had with Amys and Egwene in tel'aran'rhiod the night before. They found out that Perrin did not go to the Waste but are not sure where he might have gone.

A man tries to grab Nynaeve and she cracks him with the barrel stave. Another pushes Elayne out of the way to grab Nynaeve. Elayne believes someone recognized her as the Daughter-Heir and is trying to kidnap her. They prepare to channel but hesitate since a nearby Black Ajah sister would notice. A woman with a staff begins to attack the men that have them surrounded. Just as the three women have the thugs on the run, Gelb pulls a knife and prepares to stab the woman in the back. Elayne channels to prevent him.

Nynaeve invites the woman, Egeanin, to tea at their inn as thanks for helping. Juilin is back and relaxing after his night of looking for Liandrin's group of Black Sisters. He approaches with information that he has found where the women were staying, but they are gone now. Rendra arrives and leads them to a private room for their tea. Elayne and Nynaeve agree to answer her questions but then Thom arrives and mentions that Amathera is to be invested tomorrow and the Whitecloaks have moved into the area around her palace. He says this is the type of unusual happenings that he has been watching for. Thom mentions he has arranged body guards through Bayle Domon. Egeanin knows Domon and hastily arranges her exit.

Rendra arrives and announces they have a visitor. A woman enters, channels, and suddenly Elayne and Nynaeve trip over themselves to answer the woman's questions. The woman has used Compulsion on them and finds out all about their search for Liandrin and what occurred in Tear. She does not find the ter'angreal they have because she asked the wrong questions. She then commands them to forget about the questioning and leaves.



Point of view: Egeanin Sarna


Egeanin is trying to sort out the information she has learned versus what the Seanchan believe about all women that can channel.



Point of view: Almurat Mor


Mor watches Egeanin leave the The Three Plum Court. He is trying to find out what she is up to and plans to check the inn.





Chapter 47. The Truth of a Viewing 






Point of view: Siuan Sanche

Siuan is reviewing the many reports she has received recently. Danelle appears to be not paying close attention to her responsibilities. She is frustrated because none of the reports deal with what is important, Moiraine and the Dragon Reborn. The Hall of the Tower accepted that Rand al'Thorr is the Dragon Reborn based on the report that he drew Callandor from the Stone of Tear. The door crashes open and more than a dozen Aes Sedai enter. Elaida pulls the striped stole from Siuan's shoulders and tells her she won't need it anymore. Elaida tells her that she has been deposed by the Hall of the Tower, but not all of the Hall was present, only enough to make it legal. As Siuan is taken away she finds Leane has also been captured and her warder, Alric, is on the floor with a knife in his back.

Point of view: Min Farshaw

Min enters the White Tower gate that is missing the usual guards. She notices smoke from a fire on the grounds in the distance. Her thoughts wander to what she should or shouldn't wear for Rand and then is furious with herself for wanting to be attractive. Gawyn emerges with a group of young men, all with bared blades. Gawyn tells her that Siuan was deposed and that she should leave immediately. She decides to stay even though she can not think of what good she can do.

Point of view: Siuan Sanche

Siuan wakes in a cell, naked, cold and bruised. Leane calls to her from nearby. Both have been stilled. They stand up as a key grates, turning the rusty lock.

Point of view: Min Farshaw

Min has teamed up with Laras to try to free Siuan and Leane. Min enters and is confused because the women in the cell do not appear to be Siuan and Leane. Stilling has changed their appearance, though Min does not recognize this at first. Min passes bundles of clothes to the women and explains that she distracted the guard while Laras hit him on the head. They move up the stairs, out of the basement and into the Tower proper without being seen. When Siuan learns of the fighting she realizes that the Tower has been broken. All members of the Blue Ajah have left, and most Greens. The other Ajahs split, although most of the Reds stayed to support Elaida.

As they reach the horses Gawyn steps out, having recognized Egwene's horse Bela. He demands that Siuan tell him where Egwene and his sister Elayne are. Siuan says they are safe and were in Illian, realizing that she can lie now that she has been stilled. Min asks him to go with them but all he will do is ensure they can leave through the nearest gate. Gawyn with some of the Younglings faces down the gate guards and writes out passes so the three women can leave the city. Siuan spots someone ahead of them and recognizes Logain. She decides to add him to their party and Logain agrees. Min sees again the aura of glory to come above Logain's head. She also remembers the unusual vision she saw above Gawyn. 



Gawyn kneeling at Egwene's feet with his head bowed and Gawyn breaking Egwene's neck, first one then the other as if either could be true.


She has never seen a dual vision like that before.



Unanswered Questions[]


Why didn't Siuan feel Alric's death through the Bond?
per his blog, Robert Jordan intended the attack on Alric to have just happened as Siuan was coming out, so there was nothing to feel until she arrived. He didn't feel like he conveyed that adequately, given the number of questions about it since.




Chapter 48. An Offer Refused 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Aviendha berates Rand any time his gaze falls on Isendre for ill-treating Elayne. Rand refuses to wear Aiel garb except a shoufa since he doesn't want to "pretend" to be Aiel. Eleven days have passed since the fight with Trollocs at Imre Stand. Aviendha also tries to educate him on the Waste and the Aiel, including teaching him of the dangerous gara. He cannot figure out why Aviendha dislikes him so much, since he now knows from Bair told him that she has not yet gone through the glass columns to see their past. Moiraine occasionally talks to him, mostly to try to find out what his plans are, which he won't divulge. Egwene mostly stays with the Wise Ones and finally stops wearing her hair in two braids; Rand thinks it is because she found out it is what children wear. Each evening Rand practices the sword with Lan, and spears and the Aiel's unarmed fighting style with Rhuarc.

Kadere approaches Rand repeatedly with claims of knowledge Rand could use but only if he receives guarantees of safety and protection. Natael, the gleeman, tries to get information he can use in his epic composition. After several nights of being put off by Rand, he gives up on the Jindo and goes to play for the larger Shaido camp. Moiraine and the Wise Ones check on Rand's health and whether the heat is affecting him. One day while Aviendha is travelling with the Wise Ones she channels a huge fireball. Rand realizes that Aviendha is learning to channel from the Wise Ones and that he doesn't have a teacher to teach him what he needs to learn. Mat pursues Isendre but doesn't get anywhere. Keille and Isendre trade insults and threats.

Finally, on the twelfth day they arrive at Cold Rocks Hold.





Chapter 49. Cold Rocks Hold 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand, Rhuarc, and the other Jindo begin to jog toward Cold Rocks Hold. Amys joins them, but the rest of the Wise Ones, along with Moiraine and Egwene, continue at a normal pace. Couladin joins the group and then Mat does, too. They approach Lian, the roofmistress of Cold Rocks Hold to give and receive greetings. Rhuarc and Heirn ask leave to enter, which is granted. Then Couladin asks, but as a clan chief (which he is not) and receives a bare welcome. Couladin stalks off angrily; Aviendha explains that he has been welcomed only as a beggar; Lian has insulted him, but carefully not included the rest of the Shaido in her insult. Rand asks leave to come inside, but he is flustered and accidentally echoes Heirn's lesser request, not Rhuarc's clan chief phrasing. Lian is pleased with his humility, but gives her welcome to the Car'a'carn.

Rhuarc puts his arms around Amys and Lian and introduces Rand to Amys as the wife he has met and Lian as the wife he hasn't. Rand hadn't really grasped that some Aiel had two wives, thinking he had surely misunderstood. Mat is even more flustered than Rand, but Rand apologizes, clarifying that Aviendha has been teaching him but he had missed this part; it is his fault, nuot hers.

They enjoy a pleasant meal of a crumbly, course yellow cake ; a spicy stew of goat meat and peppers; zemai and t'mat ; long red beans mixed in with green beans; and a sweet fruit called a kardon . Aviendha continues to lecture Rand about everything, saying that she must forgo the meal in order to continue. Rand resolves to give her a gift which he hopes will reduce the sharpness of her tongue. Rhuarc informs Rand that several clan chiefs have already arrived at the meeting place, Alcair Dal, or are on their way.

Rand wonders if he should go soon to the meeting, to make sure the clans do not continue with whatever blood-feuds they have. Rhuarc recommends against that since those not present will lose honor when the Car'a'carn is presented. Rand leaves the conference to go out for a walk.





Chapter 50. Traps 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand wishes he could trust Moiraine and then wonders how he can use herher and the Aiel. He has resolved to try to make peace with Aviendha, although he doesn't know the cause of the conflict. He makes his way to where the Maidens reside in Cold Rocks Hold. He asks the Maidens to suggest an appropriate gift for Aviendha's teachings. All of the Maidens come out to watch as he examines the potential gifts, finally selecting a ivory bracelet decorated in carved roses with thorns. Adelin refuses payment for the bracelet and begins a tea ceremony where each maiden takes a sip of tea, and then Rand does. After each sip they say "remember honor" and kiss Rand on the cheek.

He approaches Aviendha, now beating rugs outside Lian's house. She is ungracious about receiving the bracelet. Rand mentions the tea ceremony which means that the Maidens approve of his interest in Aviendha, even though that wasn't the reason for the gift. He talks to Amys, Bair, Melaine, and Seana about Aviendha and tells them that he knows she is their spy. They hint that they had a different purpose in mind and that he could send her away if he wanted. Melaine starts a rant which Amys interrupts but not before she says, "if I have to lay the".

Rand shocks Chion, the gai'shain showing him his room, by requesting wash water. Rand dreams of swimming in the Waterwood when Elayne and Min join him while Aviendha watches from the bank. Another beautiful woman he almost recognizes stands on the opposite bank and wonders aloud if she should allow him to be unfaithful even in his dreams. Elayne, Min and Aviendha disappear; the woman dives into the water and embraces him, biting his neck "to mark him". A blurred shape of a man appears and speaks to the woman contemptuously. Rand awakes and finds tooth marks and blood on his neck, realizing it was Lanfear. Traps, he thinks, traps all around.

Rand realizes he is not alone and channels all of the lamps alight only to find that it is Aviendha sitting on the floor. Aviendha lets slip that the Wise Ones watch over him in his dreams. Rand senses some evil, some wrongness and channels his sword before exiting his room. He encounters a Draghkar just after it finishes killing Chion. Rand kills it, then another as Aviendha examines Chion. As he exits, Rand sees Seana dead on the path to his rooms. Rand rings the gong to rouse everyone and then hears shouts from Trollocs.

Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

Mat joins the fight, killing a Trolloc and cursing Rand for getting him into another mess. Mat recognizes that the Trolloc attack was a diversion so the Draghkar could reach Rand, then curses the memories of other men and battles he now has in his head. When the battle is over, Mat tries to impress Isendre once more, but she ignores him.

Rand and Moiraine have another argument, with Moiraine wanting Rand to confide in her and he wanting to keep his plans to himself. He tries to get Moiraine to promise not to interfere if he tells his plans, but she refuses. Rhuarc wants Rand guarded all the time, and the Maidens volunteer for that duty. Mat asks after the Shaido and Rhuarc says they left at dusk. Rand asks where, and Rhuarc replies north, toward Alcair Dal. Rand resolves to leave for Alcair Dal immediately since he cannot let the Shaido influence events there for a month while the rest of the clans gather. Rand insists that all of the Tardaad warriors travel with him, not just the customary honor guard. Mat agrees to come along with Rand, and wonders how Perrin pulled free of the ta'veren effect.





Chapter 51. Revelations in Tanchico 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne, Nynaeve, and Egeanin are having difficulty eating their food with Sursa, which have recently become the fashion in Tanchico. As Rendra leaves them to their meal, she mentions regular eating utensils are under their napkins. Seven days have gone past since they first met Egeanin. They have met often since then. Riots have kept them confined to the inn while Thom and Juilin generally come back battered from their explorations looking for Liandrin's group of Black Sisters.

Bayle Domon knocks and enters saying he has found them. He recognizes Egeanin immediately and the two start fighting. Domon pins her to the floor and when she grabs her belt knife, Elayne channels air to stop her from stabbing him. Domon announces that she is Seanchan which stuns Elayne since she likes her. Nynaeve says they know more than the Seanchan about sul'dam and damane, that sul'dam also can Channel. Egeanin replies that she knows that now, too.

Egeanin explains that she is here to find sul'dam that escaped from Falme. She found one and learned that an a'dam will hold her. She let Bethamin go last night. Nynaeve asks Domon to explain who he has found. Domon says he's found the women they seek hiding in the Panarch's Palace. Juilin then enters and says that he has also found them at the Panarch's palace. Thom also enters, having found out the same as Domon and Juilin. They discuss how they might continue but they can't really make plans until they know whether Amathera is a Darkfriend, being duped, or is a captive. The men go out to see if they can find out more while Elayne and Nynaeve keep watch on Egeanin.

The men come and go, each time leaving a tidbit of information they have come up with and looking a bit more bruised and battered. Nynaeve finally says there will be no more going out, instead they will keep watch while Elayne, Nynaeve, and Egeanin sleep. Nynaeve has Elayne bind Egeanin's hands with the power. Nynaeve goes to sleep with the Dream ter'angreal so she can enter Tel'aran'rhiod to meet Egwene.





Chapter 52. Need 






Point of view: Nynaeve al'Meara

Nynaeve is in the Heart of the Stone in Tear after entering Tel'aran'rhiod. When Egwene arrives, she comments on the odd dress Nynaeve is wearing, a skirted suit of armor. Amys and Bair are with Egwene and they pass on the news of what has been happening with Rand. Nynaeve explains what they have found about Amathera and Liandrin's group of Black Sisters. Nynaeve wishes help from the Wise Ones but is less than tactful in trying to obtain it. She finds herself dressed in two pigtails with a ribbon woven into them and in a short dress. She doesn't realize that the Wise Ones see her behavior as childish but she is able to change her clothing back, despite finding it difficult. The Wise Ones then agree to teach her a technique to control her thoughts and actions in Tel'aran'rhiod.

Amys explains that need is the key. Concentrate on what you need and you will shift closer to whatever you seek. Each time you try you will come closer until you are where the solution to your need is. After disguising herself as Rendra, Nynaeve concentrates on her needwhatever the item in Tanchico is that is a danger to the Dragon Rebornand finds herself in a bedroom. There Temaile Kinderode is holding Amathera captive and making her sing bawdy songs. Just before Temaile turns, Nynaeve concentrates again and is in the exhibition hall of the palace. A woman appears examining something in a glass case, then moves to a white stone stand.

Nynaeve finds herself pulling on her braid, hard, without knowing why. Suddenly images come forth and she remembers the woman that came to the inn and interrogated her and Elayne. Just before she attacks the woman, Birgitte appears and warns her to silence and motions for Nynaeve to move away to talk. Birgitte tells her that the woman is Moghedien and the man Nynaeve saw previously in the Waste was Asmodean. Birgitte explains that she is violating the precepts to even talk with someone in Tel'aran'rhiod, but she can't help herself. Gaidal Cain appears and agrees that Birgitte should not be talking to anyone.

Birgitte tells Nynaeve something of Moghedien: she hides and does not take risks but strikes when she is sure of victory. Moghedien once promised Birgitte to make her weep alone for as long as the Wheel of Time turns. Nynaeve returns to the hall to see what Moghedien was looking at. She finds one of the Seven Seals to the Dark One's prison and the Domination Band, a male a'dam. Elayne wakes her and she tells what she has learned and found.

Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne is horrified at Nynaeve's tale. Earlier she freed Egeanin's wrists from their bonds and hopes Nynaeve won't make a fuss over it. As they begin to make plans there is a commotion in the hall. A pale haired man attacked Thom but is now unconscious on the floor since Juilin and Bayle helped. Juilin recognizes the man as someone that tried to steal from him. Egeanin recognizes him as the Seeker she met and suggests slitting his throat. Nynaeve has them dump him in the alley alive, instead, and decides they should meet to make plans.





Chapter 53. The Price of a Departure 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

There have been several more attacks on Emond's Field in the seven days since the first attack. Perrin is in the Winespring Inn, planning the defence of the village along with Faile, Tam and several of the prominent villagers. Aram is also there, following Perrin wherever he goes. Dannil Lewin arrives and says that the Whitecloaks have come and brought in a wounded man demanding to see Perrin. They go to the dying man who is accompanied by several Whitecloaks including Dain Bornhald and Jaret Byar. They say they found the man a few miles to the south and the man only manages to deliver the message we are coming before he dies. 

A boy comes running saying that there is movement in the Westwood. It turns out to be Loial and Gaul, returning from their mission to seal off the Waygate. Gaul is wounded in the leg so Loial had to carry him while they fled from the Trollocs through the woods. Loial tells them that there are thousands of Trollocs in the woods, but as he does, Luc rides up and say that they are wrong; it is less than a thousand all together. As Gaul argues in Loial's favour, Luc says that he has been to the Blight and knows what he is talking about.

Perrin is lead back to the inn by Faile who foces him to go to bed. As he falls asleep he enters the Wolf dream and has some visions.



Egwene with fear in her eyes, standing among a group of women who slowly kneel before her.
Mat naked and bound, with a spear with a black shaft on his back and a medallion in the shape of a foxhead hung on his chest
Rand in rags with a bandage covering his eyes.


He also searches the Two Rivers for signs of Trollocs and sees hundreds of camp fires scattered around the village indicating that Loial and Gaul are right. He searches the nearby villages as well, including Deven Ride, Watch Hill and Taren Ferry which is mostly destroyed although the ferry itself survived. The banner of Manetheren is raised outside the White Boar in Watch Hill. Perrin narrowly avoids being shot by Slayer, and chases him through the forest. Remembering his prior efforts, Perrin stops chasing and waits patiently. When Slayer is close enough, he hits him in the chest with an arrow. Slayer screams and disappears. Perrin wakes up, thinking that he might have just seen how a man dies in the wolf dream.

As he wakes he hears a commotion downstairs. Ban al'Seen tells him that Lord Luc just rode away in a hurry, looking injured. Perrin ponders about the connection between Luc and Slayer, how they both smell inhuman, but look very different. Downstairs he meets Faile and convinces her to go to Caemlyn for help and she agrees for the price of a wedding. Moments later they are married before the Women's Circle and the rest of their party.





Chapter 54. Into the Palace 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne, Nynaeve, and Egeanin are on their way to the Panarch's Palace in a wagon led by Bayle Domon and twenty of his men. Thom and Juilin have been out spreading rumors to start another riot in the city. Once at the palace they carry baskets of ice peppers in disguise to get in past  Carridin and his Whitecloaks. They see Marillin Gemalphin feeding a cat, but she is too occupied to notice them. 

In the pantry they change to servants' clothes. They get the breakfast tray for 'Lady' Ispan and split up: Nynaeve is going to the museum and Elayne and Egeanin are going after Amathera. The latter two enter Amathera's room and find Temaile there. Elayne quickly throws her to the wall with Air, knocking her unconscious. They manage to convince Amathera that they are not her enemies, but she is hesitant about trusting them and they have to force her to cooperate as they sneak out.  

Point of view: Nynaeve al'Meara

Nynaeve enters the museum and quickly finds the sad bracelets. A maid enters but Nynaeve recognizes her as Moghedien. They both attack and fight each other, but Moghedien is furious when she realizes that they are evenly matched. She says she will give Nynaeve to Rahvin even though he already has a "pretty little queen". When Moghedien sees the sad bracelets she tells Nynaeve about them; how they are made from cuendillar, how a woman can control a man, how they wont protect him from the taint, how he will eventually be able to control the woman controlling him, and how two women can use them but that will lessen the control. She also tells her about how they were made after the Bore was sealed, but she found out about them when she broke free. Moghedien was two hundred years old when the bore was made, and still considered young for an Aes Sedai.

To break their deadlock, Nynaeve suddenly throws the collar towards Moghedien, disturbing her concentration. In that split second she manages to slam a shield down between Moghedien and saidar. She ties off the shield and binds Moghedien with weaves of Air, picks up the collar and bracelets and finds the seal as well, which has been disguised as another figurine. 

As she turns to go, she sees Jeaine Caide pointing the fluted black rod directly at her. She manages to jump out of the way just as a bar of balefire rips through much of the museum. When she looks up again Jeaine is nowhere to be seen and Moghedien is also gone somehow. Nynaeve gathers her things and goes to meet Elayne and Egeanin. 







Chapter 55. Into the Deep 






Point of view: Nynaeve al'Meara

As Nynaeve runs through the palace, she sees Liandrin and Rianna Andomeran, but fortunately they do not see her. Elayne, Egeanin, and Amathera are waiting for her at the prearranged meeting place and Amathera says that she will provide papers to allow them to safely leave the city.

Nynaeve tells them what just happened with her encounter with Moghedien and the others are stunned that she managed to capture one of the Forsaken. Nynaeve also tells them that she has the seal as well as the sad bracelets. A door to the outside opens. Juilin Sandar, Bayle Domon, and Thom are there with three hundred of Bayle's men. It is total chaos with rioters fighting the Whitecloaks. 

Back at the Three Plum Court, Elayne introduces Amathera to Rendra as 'Thera,' a refugee. Rendra takes her to the kitchen. Elayne tells them that Amathera has agreed to stay in hiding till she can muster her own troops so she does not have to answer to King Andric.
When Nynaeve shows them the seal and the sad bracelets, Bayle recognizes the seal and says that he actually owned one. Elayne tries to melt the sad bracelets with Fire, but they do not react at all to her channeling. They agree that Bayle will take them and throw them in the sea while the others will take the seal back to Tar Valon. Nynaeve then plans to go back to Tear or wherever Lan is. 







Chapter 56. Goldeneyes 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin is sitting in the common room of the Winespring Inn, writing a letter to Faile. Aram is with him as Ban al'Seen enters and reports that the scouts have reported thousands of Trollocs both to the north and south. Perrin walks outside and finds that Wil al'Seen carries the Wolf-Head Banner. Perrin reviews the women and children who are prepared to run for the woods if the Trollocs break through. He apologizes to them for arranging for Faile to escape. Perrin rides to the center of the village and sees that the four hundred Whitecloaks, led by Dain Bornhald and Jaret Byar, are preparing to leave. He offers them a deal to arrest him if they stay and fight alongside the villagers and Dain agrees.

The defense is organized and Perrin rides up to Verin. She says that he is a very interesting subject of study along with Mat and Rand. She asks him if he knows what it actually means to marry Zarine Bashere and looking at his axe, she says "When are you going to give this up for the hammer?" As Perrin contemplates what she might mean with these words they hear Trollocs roar from the forest surrounding the village. The Trollocs shout Isam! three times then attack. Verin comments that their cry is interesting. The Trollocs are so many that they quickly overrun the village defenses and Aram saves Perrin as a Trolloc grabs him. All around them people are fighting.











A boy comes to Perrin and reports that people from Deven Ride have come to help and are fighting the Trollocs from the south. Perrin then sees the Manetheren banner to the northmen from Watch Hill have arrived with Faile and Bain and together they kill the Trollocs and Myrddraal. They meet up with Faile and her party and she is ecstatic that men followed her in battle. Dain and Byar rides up to arrest Perrin, but he tells them that the deal was broken as the Whitecloaks did not help them. Dain says he will see Perrin dead if the world burns, but the Whitecloaks retreat reluctantly on Perrins command as the entire village is behind him. The mayor of Watch Hill asks Perrin if he should accompany the Whitecloaks to make sure they do nothing stupid, and Perrin agrees. The Women's Circle wants to talk to Perrin once all is safe, but all he wants is to be an ordinary blacksmith. Faile tells him it is too late for that and as they ride back to the inn they hear the people shouting "Lord Perrin!" and "Goldeneyes!"

For a more extensive depiction of the battle, please see Battle of Emond's Field section.

Point of view: Padan Fain

Watching from a tree a mile north, Ordeith does not understand how things went wrong. Why did Isam stop bringing in more Trollocs? He really wanted the entire Two Rivers totally destroyed in order to get Rands attention. He gathers his band of ex-Whitecloaks and a Fade and heads to Caemlyn, then on to Tar Valon.





Chapter 57. A Breaking in the Three-fold Land 



Point of view: Rand al'Thor

After the attack on Cold Rocks Hold, the Maidens claim the right to be Rand's personal guards since he has no clan of his own and was born of a Maiden. After he accepts, they start a ceremony where Rand gets drunk on oosquai with them, and is put to bed by the Maidens while Aviendha watches. They leave for Alcair Dal the next day. More and more Aiel of the Taardad join their party until they are fifteen thousand men and women. The Maidens now form an honor guard around Rand at all times.

When they arrive at Alcair Dal, they find that five other clans have already arrived, of which the Shaido are the most numerous. Couladin wants to stop Rand from entering Alcair Dal, but the Shaido back down because the Taardad have brought far more warriors than they expected. Moiraine wants to accompany Rand, but Amys tells her that it is men's business. Moiraine says that there are lots of people fighting for Rand and asks if Lan may accompany him at least, but he denies her, saying that the Maidens now carry his honor; this pleases them. Mat asks if he can come, and Rand says yes. 

As they move forward into Alcair Dal they are approached by a party of men and women lead by Mandhuin of the Goshien clan. He tells them that Sevanna wanted the clan chiefs to meet today, but Bael refused. A Wise One says that they have heard that the Car'a'carn will be announced today. Rand moves onto a ledge in the hollow that will carry the words spoken to the entire place. The clan chiefs Bael, Han, Jheran, and Erim are there along with Sevanna and Couladin. Sevanna stands for the Shaido since she is roofmistress of Comarda Hold and their previous clan chief, Suladric, is dead. 

Suddenly Couladin stands and claims to everyone that he is the Car'a'carn and reveals dragon marks on his arms, just like Rand's. Rand counters by showing his dragons as well, and challenges Couladin to tell what he saw in Rhuidean. The other clan chiefs try to resist, but Couladin claims he saw the glory of the Aiel. Rand reveals that he saw the Aiel as they followed the Way of the Leaf in the Age of Legends. Couladin calls him a liar. This revelation shakes most of the Aiel present, but the other clan chiefs know that Rand is the one telling the truth and they proclaim him the true Car'a'carn. Couladin throws a spear at Rand but it is blocked by Adelin and fighting breaks out. Rand channels through the fat bald man angreal and calls down rain to where it has never fallen before. 

Suddenly Lanfear appears at Rand's side and creates a dome around the two of them. She is angry at Rand and tells him that Asmodean is behind the dragons on Couladin's arms as well as the attack of the Draghkar, but now Rand has scared him away with his fatalistic talk of destiny.



 Asmodean is now on his way to Rhuidean, but she does not know why. Rand suddenly remembers how to create a Gateway (from his battle with Ishamael in the Stone of Tear), opens one up, and steps through to chase Asmodean. 



Chapter 58. The Traps of Rhuidean 



Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand is following Asmodean using a platform he created through Skimming. As Asmodean turns around, Rand can see that it is the face of Jasin Natael, not Hadnan Kadere as he had suspected. Asmodean jumps through a gateway, but as it is about to close, Rand channels and wills it open again to let him through to Rhuidean. They both run through the city, destroying a good part of it in the process, and reach the statue at the city center at the same time, each controlling half of the One Power from the giant statue in Cairhien. Their battle destroys a good part of the city and Avendesora is now on fire. Their powers are evenly matched until Rand remembers the angreal he found in Tear in the shape of a little fat man. Rand then visualizes the black threads he has seen previously around Asmodean and severs them with the extra power gained from the angreal, winning the battle. 

The fog surrounding the city is dissipating and Rand sees that his fight with Asmodean has changed the landscape, lowering some mountains and leveling one entirely. Lanfear appears and is shocked by the news that Rand has severed the bond between the Dark One and Asmodeanshe did not know such a feat was possible. She agrees to tell the other Forsaken that Asmodean turned on his own and shields him partially so that he can only channel a small portion of his true potential. 

Rand realizes that Lanfear was the one in his memories from the glass columns who opened the Bore to the Dark One's prison when Asmodean refers to her as "Mierin". They talk for some time and Lanfear always refer to Rand as Lews Therin. She leaves through a gateway; before Rand does the same with Asmodean, he finds the female half of the pair of statues. As Rand looks around the city he notices a vast lake forming. Rand and Asmodean agree that they will continue to call him Jasin Nataelgleeman to the Dragon Rebornbut that in reality Asmodean will serve as Rand's teacher to prepare him for his fight against the other Forsaken. The first thing he wishes to learn is to shield his dreams.  

Back at Alcair Dal, Moiraine notes the two statues Rand is holding, but says nothing. Rand is informed that the Shaido have left Alcair Dal and that some Aiel of other clans left as well.  





