Chapter 0. The First Sparks Fall.



Point of view: Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan Setting: Office of the Amyrlin Seat.

Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan has a meeting with Alviarin, Danelle, Teslyn, Joline, Shemerin, Javindhra, Andaya, and some other sisters in the offices of the Amyrlin Seat. They discuss the current world affairs, but without actually asking Elaida for advice or let her make any decisions.



Davram Bashere is moving an army away from the Blight.
War and civil war in Tarabon and Arad Doman has escalated, Amathera (the Panarch of Tarabon) has disappeared, and an Eyes Sedai may have been involved
Elayne, the Daughter-heir of Andor, is still missing, as well as her half-brother, Galaad
Morgays, the Queen of Andor, may make a claim to the throne of Kai'rienne
Gawyn and his Younglings are clashing with Whitecloaks and not under close White Tower control
Pedron Niall is trying to broker a deal with Illian, Murandy, and Altara to prevent a war between them


Elaida becomes angered that the sisters do not acknowledge her as their leader and lashes out at them towards the end of the meeting. This frightens them all. Alviarin is unimpressed but doesn't say anything. The nonverbal communication between her and Elaida is interrupted by an unnamed Accepted informing Elaida that Padan Fain has arrived and has asked to meet her.

Point of view: Padan Fain.

Briefly considering killing the Accepted for lunch, Fain walks into Elaida's study as she sends away Alviarin. He looks around her office and is apprehensive about her picture  of Rand al'Thor. He also thinks about how he can feel the ruby-hilted dagger pulling at him and that the Horn of Valere is being kept in the Tower. He begins to talk to Elaida about Rand and how he is extremely uncontrollable…

Point of view: Rahvin Setting: Royal Palace of Andor.

Rahvin is sitting in his chambers surrounded by an unnamed Eyes Sedai of the Red Ajah and Elegar. He uses the Compulsion on her so she doesn't report Rahvin. He contemplates what he will do with Morgays when he no longer needs her to rule as the Queen of Andor. When they both leave, Rahvin is visited by Lanfear. She informs him that she has scheduled a meeting with Sammael and Graendal at his palace. They arrive shortly after. The four of them discuss the situations of the rest of the Forsaken and Rand and what they are going to do. Rahvin thinks about how the situation can benefit him and him only.





Chapter 1. Fanning the Sparks.



Point of view: Min.


Elmindreda Farshaw, Sewan Sawnchay, and Lee’ahnna Sharif are prisoners awaiting judgment for burning down a barn and stealing money. Min gives the name Sarenla which amuses the local lord, because it means "stubborn daughter" in the Old Tongue. Logain Ablar, their traveling companion was not captured. Lee’ahnna adjusts her dress and uses Min's makeup to make herself more attractive in hopes she might be able to reduce whatever sentence is in store for them.

Gareth Bryne listens to the testimony from Admer Nem. Lee’ahnna tries to charm Bryne while Min pleads for mercy and Sewan is defiant but silent. Bryne decides the three will work for him and requires an oath if they are to avoid working in the fields where they will be watched closely. Min resolves to give a weak oath and then leave anyway until Sewan gives an oath as strong as possible to repay the costs.

Sewan still plans to escape, not scrub pots. She will do first what she must do, then come back and do what she swore to do. While they are being carted away to Bryne's estate, Logain uses a sling to knock out Joni, their escort, and rescue them.



Point of view: Gareth Bryne.


Bryne collects his men to follow after the oathbreakers. Just before departing he receives word that Callandor has been drawn from the Stone of Tear and that Elaida is now the Amyrlin. He is also informed that Sewan Sawnchay and Logain were executed.



Point of view: Alteima.


The High Lady Alteima arrives at the Royal Palace of Andor. She has fled Tear to get away from the High Lady Estanda and from Rand al'Thor.  She hopes to find a rich old husband in Kaymlin and achieve power by befriending Morgays Trakand.  During her audience with the Queen of Andor, though, Lord Gaebril (Rahvin) sends Morgays away and uses Compulsion to make Alteima tell him everything about Rand al'Thor and Tear.



Point of view: Morgays Trakand.


After being sent away by Rahvin, Morgays returns to her room. During this time it is obvious her mind tries to combat Rahvin's Compulsion on her, but without success.





Chapter 2. Roy'deonne.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand al'Thor, the Car'a'carn and the Dragon Reborn is observing the partly ruined and abandoned city of Roy'deonne from atop a tower, while Jasin Natael plays music in the room behind him. He observes Mworane, who is overseeing workmen loading ter'angreal onto wagons for transport out of the Waste. LAN rescues a workman who almost falls through the Twisted redstone doorframe. Roy'deonne is changing from the empty, forbidden city to one being settled by some of the Eye’eel, now that there is enough water nearby.

Rand is meeting with six clan chiefs that have accepted him as the Car'a'carn, the chief of chiefs. Six others have not arrived, yet, or have not accepted him, yet. They are discussing the Eye’eel that have run away or thrown down their spears, because they can not accept that the Eye’eel were once committed to non-violence instead of the deadly warriors they are now. Rand receives assurances that the other clans will eventually join him―all except the Shaido.

Mworane and Igwayne arrive at his room so Rand excuses the chiefs to their duties. Mworane is almost ready to have the wagons leave for Tar Vawlyn. Mworane shows Rand that one of the seals she carries can be damaged by a knife even though it is made of indestructible Cuendillar. After Mworane leaves, Igwayne berates Rand for his rudeness. Rand remembers Ilyena being angry with him, then realizes he has no idea who Ilyena is, but he can see her face in his mind. As Igwayne beings to leave she turns and tells Rand that Elayne loves him.





Chapter 3. Pale Shadows.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is angry at Natael for channeling where Igwayne might have seen him. Natael is really the Forsaken Asmodean and has been forced to be tutor to Rand by another Forsaken, Lanfear. Natael explains linking, that men cannot join together without a woman, while women can join together, up to thirteen before a man is needed. He warns Rand that thirteen women linked―even the thirteen weakest―can overpower any man. They discuss the other Forsaken but Natael does not know where they are except that Sammael is in Illian and that Rahvin has a queen as a pet. As sunset approaches, gai'shain bring in food and drink for supper.

Rand channels and ties off a weave that will keep Natael in the room. With the Maidens as a guard of honor, he heads toward his sleeping chamber in the same building where the Maidens have their society.

Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat is singing Jak o' the Shadows while playing a drinking and knife accuracy game with some Eye’eel. Mat grimaces when he realizes the song is from his memories and has not been sung for a long time. Even though light is fading, Mat wishes to continue the game and boasts he could hit the target blindfolded. When challenged about his boasting, he proceeds to demonstrate that he can hit the target blindfolded. He then sits and muses about the memories of battles that he can recall so clearly even though he was not alive for those battles. Melindhra approaches Mat and ask if he can always hit targets blindfolded. He replies usually, and gives her a necklace. She tells him that she accepts his offer. Mat does not know what offer he made, so he leaves her when he sees Rand walking nearby.

He calls to Rand and gets no answer, so finally he calls to Lews Therin and Rand stops and turns. Mat tells Rand he would like to leave with the peddler wagons when they head for Tar Vawlyn. Rand gives permission but tells Mat to not trust Kadere, not an inch. Mat asks Melindhra as he usually does with women, if "Daughter of the Nine Moons" means anything to her. When she says no, Mat happily goes off with her.





Chapter 4. Twilight.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand enters the Roof of the Maidens, the only male allowed inside one except gai'shain. Rand would like to get away from the mothering he receives from the Maidens, but can't think of a good excuse to use. He heads to his bedroom on an upper floor so he can get some sleep. Aviendha enters the room with her arms full of blankets to help Rand keep warm during the cold nights. She is wearing a silver necklace and Rand wants to know who gave it to her. Aviendha has spent the last ten days away from Rand, training to be a Wise One. Since Rand admitted the bracelet he gave her was not a regard gift, she has come to give him a non-regard gift in return, so they are even. The gift is a belt buckle with a Dragon design. This was made from the metal in Aviendha's weapons that had to be melted down. Aviendha tells Rand that she has to give gifts to the three men and three women she hates the most and that he is one of the men.

Isendre sways into the room in a with a tray with wine and cups. She is dressed only in jewelry and a veil, as punishment for stealing the jewelry. She is startled and dismayed to see Aviendha there. Aviendha is furious with her and refuses to let Rand intervene. Even though Isendre and Kadere are Darkfriends Rand can not let that be found out since it would end the training he is receiving from Jasin Natael. Aviendha says Isendre has tried seven times to reach him and been switched each time and that she would be doing that without some encouragement from him. After Aviendha and Isendre leave, Rand falls asleep dreaming of Elayne, Min, and Aviendha.





Chapter 5. Among the Wise Ones.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Cowinde, a gai'shain, is sent by The Wise Ones, Bair, Amys, and Melaine to summon Igwayne to their sweat tent. Igwayne attempts to converse with Cowinde but she is frustrated that her efforts are politely avoided. Aviendha is busy keeping the tent steaming. Mworane and the Wise Ones are discussing Rand's plan to move the Eye’eel in to the West lands, to bring the nations under his control before the Last Battle. Mworane fears it will have the opposite effect and create chaos just before the Last Battle. She wants Rand to wait for the Amyrlin Seat to bring the nations to his side.

More Tinkers have entered the Waste than usual and some Eye’eel are joining them to practice the Way of the Leaf. The Wise Ones are considering whether Aviendha should sleep in the same room as Rand, an idea Aviendha strongly protests against. Amys wishes Igwayne to find Elayne's and Nine'eev's dreams which will allow her to communicate with them more directly. Melaine asks Amys and Bair to approach Dorindha about becoming her sister-wife.

Aviendha asks Igwayne if someone from her land could accept a sister-wife. Igwayne doesn't think so, but tells Aviendha, perhaps if they are friends. When they go outside they are told to run around the camp fifty times for their earlier transgressions. As they run they compare notes and find that the Wise Ones are using each of them as comparisons to the other for motivation.





Chapter 6. Gateways.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand wakes and smells something foul and evil below his room. He runs up the stairs so he will be able to fight without the Maidens being involved and possibly hurt. Three Darkhounds enter the room so he channels a sword. Using his new found mastery of the sword Rand easily kills them when they charge. Then they begin to pull together and reform so he uses Balefire to obliterate them. Mworane arrives and checks to make sure they did not bite or bleed on him. She mentions that packs are usually ten to twelve so Rand runs to where other targets might be without explaining to Mworane.

In another building three Darkhounds are clawing at a bronze door trying to enter. Moving to the side he uses Balefire again to destroy the dogs, but this time with only minor damage to the building. A naked Mat opens the door cautiously to Rand's pounding and Melindhra wraps herself in a blanket. There are only small holes in the door but Mat remembers a larger hole and saliva dripping on to his arm. Mworane arrives and tries to heal the burn on Mat's arm, but the healing does not work. Mat mentions that his Foxhead medallion went cold, so Mworane tells him to take it off. After he does, Mworane is able to heal him.

Mworane wishes to talk to Rand about using Balefire but he has another errand to run and tries to brush her off. She apologizes for how she has treated him and begs him to let her advise him, even promising to give an oath. She explains that balefire is prohibited from use and even the Forsaken were reluctant to use it. Rand reminds her that she used it in the Stone of Tear on Be'lal. When anything is destroyed by balefire it ceases to exist before the moment of its destruction. The more powerful the balefire, the further back it time so that actions taken have no longer been taken. The pattern could unravel if enough lives were destroyed that removed their actions far enough back in time.

Rand orders Mworane to leave Mat alone and not try to take his medallion. He then makes a gateway to check on Asmodean, who was not attacked. Darkhounds did scout outside the room though so Rand erases the footprints that were left in the stone floor. He makes another gateway to his room, therefore avoiding the Maidens. He checks on the Choedan Kal Access keys and finds they are both safe, hidden in his room. Lanfear appears as he is hiding the access keys again, but not before she recognizes them. She again tries to tempt him to join her in a bid for power over the other Chosen. She tells him that Rahvin sent the Darkhounds and that he is in Kaymlin, with Morgays as a puppet of his.

There is a knock at the door and Enaila enters to say the clan chiefs have arrived to talk to the Car'a'carn and the maidens have been looking for Rand. The Shaido are on the move toward Jangai Pass and the other five clans are moving also, but not necessarily with the Shaido. Rand decides his clans will follow and they will leave at first light.





Chapter 7. A Departure.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne is getting set to ride west with the Eye’eel led by Rand. Last night she was successful at finding Amys' dreams. She explores other dreams and found Hadnan Kadere's to be dark and lewd. Isendre has been made datsang for her repeated attempts to get past the Maidens to seduce Rand and so is dressed in a black robe, a particularly harsh penance in the desert. Rand is talking to the Clan Chiefs, suggesting they contract Ogier to rebuild Roy'deonne. Natael is riding a mule nearby while Mat is talking about how Rand ordered Mworane around. Igwayne rides up to Aviendha who appears upset with Rand but won't say why.

Point of view: Mworane Dawmodred.

Mworane reflects on the memories she retains after passing through the three ringed ter'angreal in the Roy'deonne plaza. LAN comments on her behavior with Rand that morning and notices to himself that she seems afraid, something he has never seen before. Mworane explains that Rand is pulling away from her and she believes her oath to obey him is the only way to protect him. 





Chapter 8. Over the Border.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev has just channeled a storm to allow them to escape from bandits in Tarabon. She is no longer angry, though, so Elayne will have to deal with any that pursue them. They are fleeing Liandrin's group of Black Sisters in Tanchico, having accomplished their mission and now need to return to the White Tower to report. Nine'eev gets a water bottle from Jeweleen, then makes her way to the front wagon bench where Thom and Elayne are sitting. Nine'eev is grumpy at everyone else for one reason or another.

Elayne is flirting with Thom while a group of Whitecloaks approach the wagon from the direction they are going. The leader of the Whitecloaks questions Nine'eev about what they are carrying and conditions in Tanchico. She answers they are carrying dyes and that Andric was still king and Amathera still Panarch when they left. She asks if they are in Amadicia, yet, and he answers that they are five miles from the border town of Mardecin. Once the Whitecloaks leave, Elayne and Nine'eev go back to bickering before Thom finally tells them to be quiet. They need supplies and a break from traveling so they plan to spend the day near the town.





Chapter 9. A Signal.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev, Elayne, Thom, and Jeweleen set up camp about a mile from Mardecin. Nine'eev levers up a floorboard to get at their money. Besides the gold purse, they have jewelry from Amathera, a box with ter'angreal they recovered in Tear, and one of the Seven Seals. Thom heads to town to get supplies they need. Nine'eev and Elayne talk about the dangers they face: the Black Ajah and the Forsaken Moghedien. 

Thom returns with the supplies but what he purchased is not satisfactory to Nine'eev so she and Elayne decide to go into town. When Thom and Jeweleen start to decide who will go with them, Nine'eev tells them it won't be necessary. Nine'eev speaks to Elayne about flirting with Thom even though she passes messages through Igwayne to say she loves Rand. Elyane says she should have made Rand understand that she loves him before she left but she now believes Min's viewing that she would have to share Rand with other women. After shopping in town for a bit, Nine'eev spots a flower arrangement that indicates someone in a dress shop is a Yellow Ajah eyes-and-ears with an emergency message.

Nine'eev talks with the seamstress, Ronde Macura, and mentions "heal" and "yellow"―the passwords needed to find out what the emergency message is. Ronde has her assistant, Luci, brew up some of her "best" tea. The message is "All sisters are welcome to return to the White Tower. The Tower must be whole and strong." The message makes no sense to Nine'eev or Elayne and Ronde can not provide any background about the message either. Elayne and Nine'eev are suddenly very weak and sleepy and too late, Nine'eev realizes there was something in the tea.





Chapter 10. Figs and Mice.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

After being drugged by forkroot tea, Elayne and Nine'eev are carried to an upstairs bedroom in Ronde Macura's house. Ronde leaves to make arrangements to transport the girls to the White Tower, leaving a fearful Luci to watch over them. Luci does not give them the follow-up dose on time and they are able to start moving their fingers and limbs. Luci bursts in though and gives them more forkroot before they are able to stop her. They wake up again and are starting to move a bit when Thom enters the room with Luci. Despite orders, Jeweleen followed them to town, then Thom came later when none of them returned.

Jeweleen arrives in the room with Ronde Macura and the men help the girls walk off the forkroot effects. When questioned, Ronde says she has orders from the her Eyes Sedai contact, Narenwin Barda, to capture or delay a girl that looks just like Elayne. She claims the Amyrlin herself gave the order. She was going to send them off with Therin Lugay who would be given enough forkroot to keep them drugged. Ronde sent a message to the White Tower that she had captured Elayne before returning to the house.

Nine'eev gives a rare apology to Thom and Jeweleen for underestimating their ability to help when channeling isn't sufficient. Nine'eev and Elayne decide to disguise themselves by changing their dresses and hair color. They use dresses from the seamstress shop and acquire a carriage so they can travel as two ladies with their servants.

Point of view: Omni.

The residents of Mardecin are surprised to see that someone purchased the coach from Noy Torvald. Two ladies enter the coach at Ronde Macura's shop and the coach quickly leaves town.

Therin Lugay arrives to take Elayne and Nine'eev to Tar Vawlyn but instead finds Ronde and Luci tied up and asleep upstairs. Pondering on his nagging wife and shrewish mother-in-law, he decides to use the money he was paid to see the world rather than returning home.

Ronde Macura wakes from the forkroot she was given and hurries to send another pigeon to Tar Vawlyn saying she no longer has Elayne captive. She sends a similar note somewhere else to the west. The cote keeper, Avi Shendar, sends a third copy of the message to somewhere else.



Unanswered Questions[]


To whom did Ronde send the second pigeon?
To whom did Avi send the third pigeon?




Chapter 11. The Nine Horse Hitch.



Point of view: Sewan Sawnchay.

Sewan Sawnchay, Lee’ahnna Sharif, Min Farshaw, and Logain Ablar have reached Lugard. They are searching for where the Blue Ajah headed after they broke with the White Tower and Sewan has a contact in the city that might provide information. They arrive at the inn they will be staying at, The Nine Horse Hitch. Sewan arranges for Lee’ahnna and Min to distract Logain while she heads to a different inn, The Good Night's Ride, to try to get the information they need. She approaches the tavern owner, Duranda Tharne, and gives the Blue Ajah signal phrase. She is treated very rudely since she arrived during the day instead at the end of the day like she is supposed to.

Mistress Tharne finally takes Sewan to a back room and tells her off before finally giving her the information she seeks. She is told "Sallie Daera" which is enough information for Sewan to know where to go.

Point of view: Min Farshaw.

Min is watching Lee’ahnna flirting with a table full of wagon drivers and merchant guards while Logain fumes from not being the center of her attentions. Min ponders what it would be like if she could use Lee’ahnna's tricks on Rand. Sewan enters and tells her they need to go south, right away.





Chapter 12. An Old Pipe.



Point of view: Gareth Bryne.

Gareth Bryne and his ex-soldiers are still following Sewan Sawnchay, Lee’ahnna Sharif, and Min Farshaw (though he still doesn't know their true identities). He has reached Lugard, where they pick up the trail again. Even though it doesn't seem to be worth traveling so far to catch them, Gareth will not stop. Gareth tells his men a story of how Sewan and Elaida had Morgays order him to move guards back from the Murandian border some years ago but he never found out why.





Chapter 13. A Small Room in Sienda.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Nine'eev and Elayne are traveling in a coach driven by Thom, with Jeweleen as the coachman. Nine'eev is upset about playing the role of maid and tries to make Elayne's life miserable in return. They are traveling east through Amadicia and yesterday went past the capital city, Amador. Elayne finally tells her to stop sulking which Nine'eev does to some extent. The coach stops when the horses are frightened by boar horses from a menagerie. Valan Luca comes over to apologize and also begins to flirt with Elayne.

Luca tries to talk them into a performance then finally admits they are broke due to unforeseen happenings in a nearby town. Elayne won't take the time to see the show but asks Nine'eev to help him out with some of their money. Nine'eev gives Luca the smallest coin she can and insults him as she tells Thom to drive off, leaving a fuming Luca in the road.

They reach the town of Sienda and find one inn has had the sign torn down and a hole in the door. The other inn has many soldiers and Whitecloaks in the common room but they need to stay there for the night. Tonight Nine'eev is going to meet Igwayne in tel'aran'rhiod so she begins getting ready for bed early. Elayne asks Nine'eev to pass a message to Rand that she loves him, only him.





Chapter 14. Meetings.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev appears in the Heart of the Stone as she enters Tel'aran'rhiod. She calls to Birgitte, who appears but without Gaidal Cain this time. Birgitte believes Gaidal may have been born in to the real world again, which means she will be also within a few years. Birgitte is trying to keep an eye on the Forsaken in Tel'aran'rhiod and reporting to Nine'eev or Elayne. There has been no sign of Moghedien, the spider, since Nine'eev fought her in Tanchico. She may be avoiding Tel'aran'rhiod or she may be able to hide from Birgitte. Nine'eev wants to tell Igwayne and the Wise Ones about Birgitte and what she has found, but Birgitte says she must hold to her promise to not tell anyone.

Igwayne arrives while Nine'eev is viewing herself in provocative dresses in a mirror, startling her. Nine'eev informs Igwayne and Melaine that they are in Sienda. Nine'eev tells about the strange message from Ronde Macura and that she tried to drug her and Elayne, then feels guilty over not admitting that they were drugged. Igwayne tells of the Eye’eel heading for Jangai Pass, following Couladin and the Shaido. She also reveals that Rand is ordering around Mworane and that she obeys. Despite Nine'eev's dislike for Mworane, she is indignant that Rand is doing that. Melaine upbraids Nine'eev for taking unnecessary risks in Tel'aran'rhiod. Nine'eev refuses to stop, so Melaine announces that, "Aan'allein will die on the day he learns that you are dead." Melaine then changes her into the clothes of a little Eye’eel girl and then she and Igwayne disappear.





Chapter 15. What Can Be Learned in Dreams.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev decides to see if she can find out what is going on in the White tower from within Tel'aran'rhiod. She tries to go to the Ahmerlin’s study, but fails, so she goes to the room of the Mistress of Novices. She disguises herself as an accepted with Melaine's face. When she arrives at the Ahmerlin’s office, she finds it completely different from what she remembered, which is why she was not able to dream herself directly there. Igwayne comes into the room, also disguised, but she realizes it must be Nine'eev and reveals herself.

Igwayne reinforces to Nine'eev the dangers of the dream world. Nine'eev is still unrepentant, so Igwayne conjures a nightmare of vile men trying to force themselves on Nine'eev. This finally convinces her to relent. Then they begin to search through the papers in the study and in the Keeper's room outside. The papers fade away as they are being read, sometimes before they can be read. Igwayne finally finds a paper signed by Elaida as Amyrlin and calls out to Nine'eev. Elaida wants Mworane to be detained and returned to the tower to be tried for treason. They realize the tower has split over Elaida taking charge. Nine'eev tries to remember a report about a gathering of Blues she started to read, but she can't find it again and can't remember where the Blues were gathering. Nine'eev suddenly realizes that Igwayne has taken charge of their relationship and is unhappy over that. She blames her lie about not being drugged by the forkroot and confesses to Igwayne the truth. Igwayne threatens her with a cup of boiled catfern and powdered mavinsleaf. Igwayne convinces Nine'eev not to speak of their trip to the White Tower to the Wise Ones.

Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne wakes and worries about whether a Wise One caught her in Tel'aran'rhiod alone, but they didn't. She decides that Rand needs to know about what has happened in the White Tower, so she dresses and goes to tell Mworane. Mworane is eavesdropping on Rand when Igwayne arrives. She tells Mworane that Elaida is now the Amyrlin. She also mentions the message Nine'eev received about all sisters being welcome to come back to the Tower. Mworane is not happy though that the Tower is split, even if one side of the split might support Rand. Mworane asks if Igwayne knows this from Dreaming. Igwayne remembers recent Dreams:



Rand sitting down in a chair that belongs to a woman who would be upset if she knew.
Pairin kissing Faile, with two banners behind them: a red wolf's head and a crimson eagle. A Tinker with a sword was there, too, and it boded ill every time he moved closer to Pairin.
Mat throwing dice with blood streaming down his face and Thom Merrilin putting his hand into a fire only to draw out Mworane's small blue stone.
A storm rending the earth with identical forked lightning bolts.


Igwayne also mentions that most of the Forsaken have been seen in Tel'aran'rhiod and they may be plotting together against Rand. Mworane muses that they might not have to worry about Lanfear much longer.  Igwayne also asks why Mworane is now obeying Rand. Mworane replies that she remembered how to control saidar: by surrendering to it.





Chapter 16. An Unexpected Offer.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev wakes in the morning and reviews the numerous bad dreams she had during the night. She and Elayne are in agreement that they should now head to Tear since the White Tower is controlled by Elaida. They are not in agreement on how to go, overland or by ship. They go down to the common room to eat breakfast and are spotted by Galaad, who has become a Whitecloak. He wants to escort them to Kaymlin where they will be safe from White Tower plots. Elayne says she needs time to think before she can accept his offer. As soon as Galaad leaves the inn, Elayne begins making preparations to leave. She does not trust that Galaad will not turn them in for being White Tower-trained witches, which are illegal in Amadicia.

When Thom and Jeweleen arrive she explains and accidentally lets Thom know she remembers him from when she was a child. Galaad is seen sitting outside the inn, so the group finally decides to sneak out of the inn and town then meet up with Valan Luca and his menagerie. There they can be his patron and hide from the Whitecloaks and Galaad. Nine'eev questions Elayne on where she knew Thom before. She admits that he was court-bard when she was little as well as her mother's lover.





Chapter 17. Heading West.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Elayne pretends to be worn out from the heat when a maid brings Nine'eev a couple of bonnets. As soon as the maid leaves they dress in less fancy clothes, don the bonnets and gather up their belongings. They leave by the back stairs and the back gate and walk several miles before Thom and Jeweleen catch up with a wagon. They successfully avoid Galaad and reach the menagerie around noon, where Valan Luca confronts them. He is still mad at Nine'eev for calling him a beggar and believes them to be thieves rather than a lady and her maid.

Elayne tells Luca that she is avoiding an arranged marriage and that her brother is looking for her. He insists though that they become performers, to blend in, to make it more difficult for someone to find them. Thom demonstrates his juggling and mentions other skills he can use to perform. Elayne notices a high rope, belonging to Sedrin (who died from a fall mere hours ago), and decides to become a high walker, along with Jeweleen. She demonstrates, but uses channeling to make her performance safe. Nine'eev doesn't get a role to play right away. The performers gather around and begin getting ready to depart, now that they will have funds.

Nine'eev takes an interest in Cerandin, the boar-horse trainer. She recognizes the animals from Fal'meh, as something that the Shawn'chin use and Cerandin is clearly Shawn'chin. Elayne joins her and they probe to find out what her history is and make sure she is not a sul'dam. Cerandin decides that Elayne really is a high lady and prostrates herself as she would to one of the Shawn'chin Blood. Elayne tells her she does not need to act that way and they agree to exchange information on each other's lands.





Chapter 18. A Hound of Darkness.



Point of view: Liandrin.

Liandrin is riding through Amador on her way to Jorin Arene's house, where she and the rest of the Black Sisters are staying. The group is awaiting orders from the White Tower, but they have not received any since Elaida deposed Sewan Sawnchay. Amellia Arene directs Liandrin upstairs to where the other sisters are. There is another woman there―a recent arrival, perhaps from Tar Vawlyn. When Liandrin enters she finds nine sisters standing, rather than sitting and the tenth, Temaile Kinderode, handing tea to a woman, who is clearly not Eyes Sedai. Suddenly she recognizes the woman as Gyldin, the servant from Tanchico. When she reaches for the source to discipline the woman, though, Gyldin channels first and shields her. She names herself Moghedien.

Moghedien has tested and disciplined all of the other sisters. Now Moghedien tells Liandrin to attempt to fight back so she can show her how futile it is. Liandrin tries to use Compulsion, but is blocked and punished with pain. Then Moghedien shows her what real Compulsion is like by using it on her. Moghedien uses air to bind the ears and mouth of all but those receiving her orders. Liandrin and four of the other sisters are to find Nine'eev al'Meera. Moghedien knows they were in Sienda, but does not know where they disappeared to.





Chapter 19. Memories.



Point of view: Morgays Trakand.

Tallanvor—the last loyal officer of the guard—tells Queen Morgays about the rumors of the rebellion in the Two Rivers. When Morgays tries to discuss this with Lord Gaebril, he uses Compulsion to send her away. Confused, she wanders to Lini, her old nurse, where she learns how wrongly she treated old allies and friends over the last months and that there is only Tallanvor of the old loyal guard left. She decides to leave Kaymlin and try to regain her power from the outside. Tallanvor, Lini, Basel Gill—the innkeeper of The Queen's Blessing—Lamgwin, and Breane accompany her.

Point of view: Padan Fain.

Padan Fain goes to the lockroom in the White Tower for his dagger and the Horn of Valere. He kills an Accepted that surprises him. Alviarin Freidhen of the Black Ajah lets him escape with the dagger, but without the Horn of Valere.





Chapter 20. Jangai Pass.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand, Mworane and the Eye’eel enter Jangai Pass through the mountains called the Spine of the World. Mworane is teaching / lecturing at Rand, trying to impart as much of her knowledge and experience into him as she can. The town just inside the pass, Taien, does not look right, with blotches on the walls and birds circling overhead. Memories from Lews Therin continue to bubble up, but Rand intents to win and remain Rand al'Thor. The blotches are bodies hung from the walls and the birds are vultures and ravens. Several residents escaped from the Shaido and approach Rand for succor. They tell him the condition of the town is a message to Rand.

The Shaido took some residents of Taien as gai'shain and took them away and killed most of the rest and burned the town. They left six days ago. Rand makes camp while scouts make sure the pass ahead is clear. The Maidens are unhappy because Rand is no longer choosing their society for scouting duties.





Chapter 21. The Gift of a Blade.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

The Eye’eel make camp in the hills near Taien. Rand observes the preparations and notes that Melaine is with the Wise Ones even though she just married the clan chief Bael. Rand decides to get some rest that night and tells Natael that they will not have lessons in channeling that night. Rand puts a ward around the entire Eye’eel encampment, to give warning if Shadowspawn cross. He enters his tent and Aviendha follows him, with a wrapped package. She hopes the package will cancel the debt between them. Rand continues to deny there is a debt, while Aviendha feels compelled to give him something back for the bracelet he gave her.

She gives him Laman's sword which is elaborately decorated with jewels. Rand believes it must have been costly, but because of the way Eye’eel feel about swords, no one wants to be its owner for long. Rand examines the blade and finds it is heron-marked and probably also power-wrought so that it does not need sharpening. He gives the begemmed scabbard back to Aviendha saying just the sword is enough to cancel the debt and he will also return the gems from the hilt when he has that remade.

Rand is distracted as he prepares for bed, as he has been every night since leaving Roy'deonne, since Aviendha is now sleeping in his tent. Rand believes this to be so she can spy on him. Aviendha hates the situation because she does not want to betray Elayne. Rand goes to sleep and dreams of Min and Elayne and Aviendha performing an Eye’eel marriage ceremony with him.





Chapter 22. Birdcalls by Night.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat is getting a backrub from Melindhra. He has memories of being different men, some taller, some shorter than he is today. Melindhra questions why he stands in the shadow of Rand. A blackbird call is heard all around the camp and they spring to action to fight Trollocs. Mat kills three Trollocs and a Myrddraal before the attackers are dead or fled. His battle knowledge notes that the size of the attack was too small to have really hoped to accomplish anything.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand wakes to the same birdcalls as Mat, grasps siedeen immediately, and runs out of his tent. Rand doesn't understand why they would be attacked. When the sounds of fighting die down he turns to go back into his tent and sees a Draghkar closing in on Aviendha. Rand channels a narrow beam of balefire to destroy the Draghkar. She turns toward him and channels a fireball at him, which he ducks. He yells at her before he realizes she was destroying another Draghkar, not attacking him.

The Wise Ones and Igwayne come up the hill to Rand's tent to check on him. Mworane and LAN arrive also. Adelin and the Maidens assigned to guard Rand come back from the fighting to find the dead Draghkar being dragged away. The Maidens believe they have failed Rand and offer him their spears, but he just tells them to go back to guarding him. Rand then goes to check on Asmodean who is alive in his tent. Rand believes it is Sammael who attacked, since it was similar to another attack he arranged during the Age of Legends. Asmodean thinks it was one of the other Forsaken trying to mislead him. Before Rand can think, he blurts out that Sammael once tried to attack him in the same way at Sarendahar but Rand realizes the thought wasn't his. Rand is distrustful of Asmodean, so he isn't sure if he believes it wasn't Sammael that attacked him. 

Rand returns to his tent where Adelin still wants to talk about the failure of the Maidens to guard him properly. He tells them to talk to Amys or Bair about it.





Chapter 23. "The Fifth, I Give You".



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne watches as the Eye’eel spread out after their four day journey through the Jangai Pass. Kadere and his wagons begin traveling down the road that carried trade through the pass before the Eye’eel War. Mworane and LAN accompany the wagons, keeping an eye on them because they carry many ter'angreal from Roy'deonne. Adelin and some other Maidens are carrying dolls as punishment for their failure to guard Rand properly four nights ago. Couladin had also sacked Selean and killed everyone the same as he did at Taien. 

Igwayne observes as Rand tells the Eye’eel clan chiefs that they are not to loot or kill without having a reason. He wants to protect Kai'rienne from the Shaido, not lead another invading force. He will allow them to take the traditional fifth in loot from those conquered, but not more and no food.

She dismounts to walk with Aviendha for a while. Aviendha is distraught over sleeping in the same tent as Rand and asks Igwayne to intercede with the Wise Ones for her. Sorilea overhears though and makes sure both women know they are to do what they have been told to do. Igwayne and Aviendha decide not to talk to the Wise Ones.





Chapter 24. A Message Sent.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne prepares for bed after a day's travelling. She reads a book Aviendha gave her about Birgitte, Gaidal Cain, and other Heroes of the Horn. She falls asleep and enters Tel'aran'rhiod early for the meeting with Nine'eev. She hears voices a bit away from her so she embraces the Source and creeps closer. She sees Elayne talking with an oddly dressed woman, who looks exactly like the Birgitte she was reading about. Before she can speak, Amys and Bair arrive early also and reprimand her for coming early or for not leaving when she found she was alone.

They approach Elayne and Bair begins to berate her for coming alone into Tel'aran'rhiod. Elayne gives a polite, but regal reply noting that she is not Bair's pupil. Nine'eev didn't come because she is bruised after Latelle attacked her for attracting the attention of the men from the menagerie, even though Nine'eev isn't interested in any of them. Igwayne gives Elayne a message to meet in the Novice quarters which she hopes Elayne understood and the Wise Ones didn't. They exchange news, then leave for their beds.





Chapter 25. Dreams of Galaad.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne is in the part of Tel'aran'rhiod where sleeper's dreams reside. She notes that Amys and Bair are asleep, otherwise she would leave immediately. She then moves herself to her old novice room in the White Tower to meet Elayne. Igwayne asks about Birgitte, but Elayne will only say she can not talk about it. Igwayne wonders if the fight Nine'eev had with Latelle will cause problems for them with the circus. Elayne believes it will not since Nine'eev actually apologized to Latelle and has been muttering and talking under her breath about Igwayne lately. Elayne has learned that Moghedien may be searching for her and Nine'eev.

Igwayne goes to Elaida's study to look through the papers. After finding out much of the current status of the White Tower Igwayne moves to the Keeper's room to look for something new. As she enters there is a flicker and Galaad comes into the room. Lee’ahnna is Keeper and Sewan is Amyrlin again, so it is a dream and she flees. She goes to Emmond's Field and finds some changes from when she lived there. There are two large poles with banners on the green, a red eagle and a wolf's head. There is a flicker again and she is back in a dream, this time with her mother coming out of the inn. Her mother mentions her husband, just as Gawyn begins to ride near. Her mother brings out a baby—their baby. She realizes her memory is working wrong and flees from Tel'aran'rhiod.

Point of view: Moghedien.

Moghedien is displeased that her attempts to trap Igwayne in a dream did not work. She has found out that Birgitte is helping Elayne and Nine'eev and resolves to capture all three of them.





Chapter 26. Sallie Daera.



Point of view: Min Farshaw.

Min, Sewan, and Lee’ahnna are riding along with a very depressed Logain. He still has his crown of future glory aura that Min can see. It has been fifteen days since they departed Lugard. After a while they move from Woodland into a large village, one that was deserted not too long ago. There are more women than there should be around the village, fewer men, and almost no children. She then notices that many of the women have auras, making them Eyes Sedai. They enter the largest inn to find many women busy with parchments or giving orders to warders.

Sheriam enters the room and addresses Min, questioning why she brought Logain and how she found the location. She and the others of the Salidar Six join her. They ignore Lee’ahnna and Sewan because they don't recognize them (because their faces changed dramatically after being stilled). Min finally tells them to ask their questions of Sewan and Lee’ahnna, which brings puzzled looks at the other two women. Lee’ahnna and Sewan are asked many questions to verify their identities, which is finally confirmed. Min is asked to keep Logain company while The Eyes Sedai work out what role there will be for Sewan and Lee’ahnna.

Min is anxious to get away and find Rand but she is being watched too closely at the moment. She asks a novice where they are and she answers in Salidar in Altara, about a mile east of Amadicia.





Chapter 27. The Practice of Diffidence.



Point of view: Sewan Sawnchay.

Sewan tries to get the Eyes Sedai in Salidar moving toward supporting Rand and doing something about Elaida instead of just waiting around in Salidar. Lee’ahnna begins to distance herself from Sewan so she can take different or more moderating views. Sewan reminds them that all of the eyes-and-ears reports are going to the Tower until they can contact them and redirect the reports to Salidar. Lee’ahnna adds that she has eyes-and-ears in Tar Vawlyn, which will be useful for getting information on the White Tower under Elaida.

Sewan finally calls their attention to her bringing Logain along. She tells them that Logain was approached by the Red Ajah at least a year before he proclaimed himself as the Dragon Reborn and that the Reds encouraged him to do so. Sewan believes spreading this information will weaken Elaida. She notes to herself that she could be lying and they do not even suspect that she could lie. Her ties to the Three Oaths were broken when she was stilled. The Eyes Sedai agree to let Sewan run the eyes-and-ears network rather than take the names away from her.

Sewan moves on to the next part of her plan, which is to suggest the Eyes Sedai establish their own Amyrlin Seat so they can declare to the world that they are the White Tower in exile. The Eyes Sedai begin identifying the traits that will be needed in the new Amyrlin, each emphasizing traits they themselves are noted for. Consensus begins building around Sheriam, but Sewan interrupts to suggest they find someone strong in the Power, but that has not been directly involved in events leading to the splitting of the White Tower. Sewan finally discloses her thoughts on where Rand disappeared to when he left Tear: the Eye’eel Waste. Her idea is immediately discounted, though, until some discussion leads to the decision to send some Eyes Sedai to check. 

Arinvar, Sheriam's warder, arrives to announce that about twenty men are on their way toward the village. Sheriam and Morvrin tell him that he must either capture the men or make sure they do not escape to report the Eyes Sedai presence in Salidar. Before Arinvar can leave to carry out his orders, another warder arrives to say that the men stopped outside of the village except one, who appears to be Gareth Bryne. Sewan panics and tells the council they must send Bryne away or kill him. The warders remark that having one of the Great Captains aligned with them would be of benefit if the plan is to take Tar Vawlyn and the White Tower away from Elaida. Sheriam asks Sewan why Bryne has come and Sewan knows she has to tell the complete truth or face disaster for her plans.





Chapter 28. Trapped.



Point of view: Gareth Bryne.

Bryne arrives in Salidar, noting the Warders and the many Eyes Sedai present. He is sure Mara is here in the village, but doesn't understand what she would have to do with Eyes Sedai or why the Eyes Sedai should be here to begin with. Min's jaw drops as she spots Bryne arriving to talk with leaders of the Eyes Sedai. Sheriam tells him the oath will be fulfilled, but they can not let him take them away at this time. Bryne states that he will stay and let Mara do his chores. Carlinya informs him that Mara is really Sewan Sawnchay and Amaena is really Lee’ahnna Sharif, which nearly drops his jaw.

He tells them it does not matter, they still swore the oaths and must uphold them. Beonin asks him to serve their group while they fulfill their oaths. Bryne sets conditions they must hold to if they want him to agree to be their general. The Eyes Sedai can give him objectives, but Bryne leads the army. If Bryne says something can't be done, they must at least consider before ignoring his advice. If they decide to start, they must finish since it will be a death sentence for the men in the army if they are disbanded. The Salidar Six confer behind a shield that mutes their voices and finally agree to his terms.

Point of view: Min Farshaw.

When Bryne comes out followed by Sewan, Min realizes that she is going to have to start meeting the obligations of the oath she made to Bryne. She would like to grab her horse and ride off to find Rand, but knows the Warders would stop her. She walks outside where Sewan tells her to watch Logain and to not let him speak to anyone. The Eyes Sedai in the inn seem more energetic, more intent on their tasks than they did before. Lee’ahnna has two women acting as her clerks, busy writing letters. Min chases after Sewan to tell of an aura she saw around Bryne. The meaning is that Sewan and Bryne must stay close to each other or they will both die.





Chapter 29. Memories of Saldaea.



Point of view: Hadnan Kadere.

Kadere is reflecting on his past and his current plans and orders. He received a cryptic note which appears to have been written by an Eye’eel, and probably a woman. He worries since he is following Lanfear's orders and it could be another Forsaken controlling whoever gave him the note. Isendre enters the wagon, still swathed in black robes as punishment for theft from the Eye’eel. She has been spending many nights in Natael's tents, trying to get information to pass to Lanfear. Kadere still wants her to find a way into Rand's bed, but she has not succeeded. She tried again that night and the Maidens shaved her head and whipped her with nettles so that she itches terribly. They told her they would make her wear the nettles the next time she tried. 

She believes, incorrectly, that Aviendha is sharing Rand's bed and tells Kadere. Kadere is sorry her spirit has broken, which means he must kill her since she is of no more use and might betray him. He uses a kerchief to strangle her, just as he killed his sister Teodora when she discovered he was a Darkfriend. He then sets about dismembering her corpse.





Chapter 30. A Wager.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is enjoying some peace and quiet for a while and avoiding Mworane, who is trying to spend all of her time teaching him. Some riders arrive, escorted by Eye’eel. They are nobles from Tear and Kai'rienne. The Shaido are attacking the city of Kai'rienne but had not taken it as of a few days ago. Rhuarc says the Eye’eel with Rand can get there to relieve the city in seven days. The young nobles from the city believe Kai'rienne can hold out that long, but not much longer. A few of the nobles are tasked with riding back as fast as they can to let the city know help is coming. 

Edorion suggests making a bet with Rand that the Eye’eel can't reach the city in time. Rand is about to reject the wager knowing he has no money but Sulin accepts the wager on his behalf, if it is increased by tenfold. Edorian accepts and leaves with the nobles. Rand is surprised to learn he has money available for the large bet due to his being accounted a chief and receiving a part of the fifth of loot from Tear. Rhuarc suggests sending out scouts and again Rand avoids including Maidens, choosing only male societies.





Chapter 31. The Far Snows.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is walking through the town of Eianrod which has been deserted or home to bandits for a while. He heads to his room in a former merchant's house and walks in to find Aviendha naked, washing herself with a basin of water and soap. She panics, claiming she did not arrange for him to see her and must get as far away as she can. She channels and a gateway appears with an icy wind and snow blowing through. She runs through into the blizzard. Rand channels something, which blocks the gateway from closing. Rand gathers up her clothes and some blankets and follows her into the storm.

Rand calls to her to stop, but she just runs faster until finally she seemingly disappears. Aviendha broke through the ice in a stream or lake. Rand channels to heat the ground nearby, he creeps out on to the ice on his belly. He manages to find her hair and begins to pull her back toward the shore. He makes a tent of snow where they can get warm before returning to the gateway. Aviendha is so cold that Rand realizes he must share his body heat with her if she is to survive. She finally is warm and wakes up. He starts to move away but she grabs him and says that the rings do not lie. She grabs his hair to pull his head close to kiss him. They make love and relax for a while before heading back to the gateway.

Rand brings up getting married when they get back but Aviendha still insists that Rand belongs to Elayne. She insists they have to follow Two Rivers customs and wait a year. They argue over marriage customs and whose customs they should follow since they are so different. She says it will not happen again and she has toh to Elayne now. They finally dress, neither turning away from the other so they can get back to the gateway.





Chapter 32. A Short Spear.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Aviendha and Rand prepare to leave their snow hut to go back to the Gateway to their room in Eianrod. As Rand finishes making a door, he sees a large flying creature with two people on its back. He tells Aviendha they will have to sneak back to the Gateway. To the east Rand can see an ocean below the rising sun. They arrive near the Gateway and see over twenty people gathered around. Two of them are sul'dam connected to two damane. Rand realizes they must be in Shawn'chin, on the other side of the Aryth Ocean from his home lands.

Rand binds the group with Air while Aviendha shields the women. They make their way to the Gateway, but rather than showing the room in Eianrod, it is a gray blank. Rand can tell that siedeen was used to obscure the Gateway and believes Asmodean may be setting a trap for him. Rand has Aviendha try to remove the collars from the damane but she can not figure out how they work. As they jump through the gateway Rand releases the weaves on the Shawn'chin. As Rand cuts the weave holding the Gateway open, a spear comes through, but part of its length is cut off by the closing Gateway.

Rand immediately confronts Asmodean, but Asmodean explains that he merely hid the Gateway so no one would ask any questions. When a gai'shain arrived with food for Rand, Asmodean suggested that he and Aviendha were busy. The Maidens construe that to mean they are in bed together and perform a ritual outside the window. Rand decides the spear will make a good scepter and a reminder that the Shawn'chin are still a threat.





Chapter 33. A Question of Crimson.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Since she has no other circus skills, Nine'eev finds herself as the target for Thom throwing knives. Luca is also planning for her to wear a fancy low-cut dress for her performances. Nine'eev argues against it but doesn't succeed. Igwayne reported from Tel'aran'rhiod last night that Rand and his Eye’eel are fighting Cairhienin and Andoran soldiers and bandits. LAN gets into the thick of the fighting whenever he can. The prophet, Mahsemma, is on the other side of the river in the city of Samara, which is where Luca plans to set up his menagerie. On this side of the river are several Whitecloak encampments.

The circus performers are at their various tasks. Aludra has more firesticks for Nine'eev to test as she continues to try to develop them in to a useful way to start fires and light lamps. Jeweleen stops Nine'eev and lets her know that there are Whitecloaks in Samara, too, and one of them is Elayne's brother Galaad, who they are trying to keep away from. Elayne wonders why Nine'eev has a black eye and Nine'eev claims that Cerandin hit her when she wasn't looking. Nine'eev then admits she was asking questions about damane and sul'dam and got into a scuffle. Cerandin has some hand-to-hand training and easily handled Nine'eev, but Nine'eev would not give up.

Nine'eev spots the a'dam that Elayne is hiding and asks her what she is up to. Elayne says she thinks she could make one, which abhors Nine'eev but excites Elyane since no one has been able to make ter'angreal for thousands of years.





Chapter 34. A Silver Arrow.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Elayne cooked supper, a very fancy meal all things considered. Nine'eev finds it tasty. When Nine'eev cooks Thom and Jeweleen eat somewhere else, which Nine'eev doesn't understand. Luca is there also, flirting with Nine'eev. Nine'eev is planning to go into Tel'aran'rhiod tonight. Elayne wants to go instead, but Nine'eev insists she will go, which lets her avoid the meetings with Igwayne and the Wise Ones.

Birgitte meets her and says she has found Moghedien. She will take Nine'eev to see her, but warns that there are other Forsaken there also, so she must not take any action. Birgitte moves them so they can see Moghedien, who is watching a meeting between Graendal, Lanfear, Rahvin, and Sammael. They are discussing getting Rand to attack Sammael while the other three link so they can overpower him. They move away from the meeting and are discussing what they heard when Moghedien interrupts their discussion and sends Birgitte flying through the air. When Nine'eev tries to channel she finds herself shielded.

Moghedien hangs Nine'eev in the air bent backward almost double and begins to taunt her. Moghedien is preparing to use Compulsion so Nine'eev will shield Elayne and bring her to where Moghedien waits. Birgitte's arrow hits Moghedien through the chest. Moghedien attacks Birgitte and she disappears, leaving her bow and arrows behind. Moghedien then vanishes from Tel'aran'rhiod and Nine'eev is grief stricken over what she has caused to happen to Birgitte. 

Point of view: Liandrin.

Liandrin is with Chesmal and Temaile when a bloody Moghedien staggers in to the room asking for Healing. Liandrin realizes that Moghedien is weakened from the wound and the effects of healing and decides it is time to strike. Moghedien blocks her attempt, shields her and teaches her a lesson she will never forget. She ties off the shield in a very complex way so that Liandrin will not be able to channel for a long time. Chesmal and Temaile are ordered to find the menagerie where Nine'eev is hiding out.





Chapter 35. Ripped Away.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

A tired Elayne tries to stay awake to watch Nine'eev while she is in tel'aran'rhiod. After two hours of watching, Nine'eev is crying and whimpering while still sleeping. Nine'eev wakes and moans that she killed "her" but doesn't say who she killed. Thom pounds on the door and when Elyane opens it, he enters carrying a naked woman who had just suddenly appeared outside the wagon. Nine'eev channels healing flows into Birgitte but they have no effect. Something is wrong with her but it is not something that can be healed. Elayne thinks of something she can try, so she channels the flows of a Warder bond to Birgitte. Elayne then asks Nine'eev what happened in tel'aran'rhiod.

Nine'eev explains the encounter with Moghedien that resulted in Nine'eev being captured and tortured, Birgitte wounding Moghedien, then disappearing. They debate how much danger they are in since Moghedien knows they are with a menagerie. Nine'eev would like to leave but Elayne believes that with so many other menageries around it will take time before they could be found. Nine'eev is remorseful and leaves the wagon to take a walk.





Chapter 36. A New Name.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne watches Birgitte sleeping, hoping she will survive. Nine'eev comes back from her walk, feet dirty and tear stains on her cheeks and tells Elayne to go to sleep. Instead Elayne decides to take a walk herself. Jeweleen found a silver arrow on the ground and Thom recognizes a woman with a braid from his stories. Elayne will not confirm Birgitte's identity to the men, though. To help answer the men's questions she explains about how they can enter Tel'aran'rhiod, that they have been hunting Moghedien, and that they may be hunted in turn, now.

Elayne returns to the wagon and works to get Nine'eev to finally go to sleep. Elayne drifts off to sleep herself, then is woken in the morning by Birgitte wondering where she is since it is not Tel'aran'rhiod. Birgitte remembers all of her past lives, things she normally would be unaware of when she was in the real world. Elayne admits to her that she is not Eyes Sedai. Birgitte agrees to keep her secrets but also promises to be a real Warder, to keep Elayne safe. Elayne begins changing a dress to fit Birgitte since they have no clothes in her size.

By the time they are dressed and go outside, the menagerie is preparing to leave camp, making its way to Samara. Luca comes by, trying to get everyone moving since he has competitors already performing in Samara. He asks Birgitte if she would paint her face and act the fool but she replies she is an archer. Birgitte bets Luca one hundred gold crowns to one she can beat him in an archery competition so Luca goes to get his bow. Thom and Jeweleen are using their inside knowledge to take bets favoring Birgitte in the coming competition. After Birgitte gives an amazing display of accuracy with bow and arrows, Luca decides to switch from Thom's knives to Birgitte's bow for the act using Nine'eev. Luca also suggests they paint her bow and arrows silver but Birgitte says paint will ruin an already shabby bow, then she introduces herself as Maerion. 





Chapter 37. Performances in Samara.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

The menagerie is finally in Samara and ready to begin performing for the public. Birgitte gets angry at Nine'eev for her continued subservience and guilt over Birgitte being ripped out of Tel'aran'rhiod. Nine'eev believes herself to be a coward but Birgitte vehemently disagrees, instead believes Nine'eev is confusing fear with cowardice. Nine'eev enters the performance area and assesses the performances and the crowds they attract. She arrives in time to see the tightrope act with Jeweleen and Elayne.

Jeweleen enters, appearing to be drunk, and ascends the ladder to the highrope where he always seems about to fall, but never does. Valan comes out after him and starts shouting for him to come down before he gets hurt. After Jeweleen finishes, to wild applause, Elayne enters dressed all in white and wearing breeches instead of a proper dress. As Elayne begins to perform, Nine'eev realizes that Elayne is not channeling which she did when she practiced. Elayne performs many daring tricks including backflips, handstands, and cartwheels on the rope, finishing to applause and adoration. The man standing next to her mutters a comment which lets her recognize him as Uno, one of the Shienarans that went with Rand to Fal'meh. Uno begins to leave while Nine'eev tries to catch up to him.





Chapter 38. An Old Acquaintance.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev finally catches up to Uno while he watches the s'redit Cerandin has performing for the crowds. He finally recognizes her from Fal Dara and Toman Head and they move outside the menagerie area to talk. He plans to take her to see Mahsemma, to help her out of whatever situation she is in that has her performing at the menagerie. He stumbles as he walks when he finds out the tightrope walker he just saw was Elayne. Nine'eev mentions they would like to find a boat to take down the river and he expects Mahsemma can make that happen one way or another. Uno informs her that Mahsemma is the Prophet for the Dragon Reborn.





Chapter 39. Encounters in Samara.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev and Uno enter Samara on their way to visit the Prophet, Mahsemma. Ragan joins them as they near the back entrance to Mahsemma's residence. Ragan and Uno disarm before going inside. Nine'eev has to wait while Mahsemma meets with a noblewoman. The noblewoman eventually strips off all her jewelry and leaves it as a donation to the Prophet. Mahsemma sounds quite fanatical with a hint of madness in his eyes and voice. When Mahsemma is informed that Nine'eev knew the Lord Dragon when he was young, he fervently wishes her to speak to the crowds. She states that she must head downriver so she can meet the Lord Dragon in Tear. She asks to be informed if a boat becomes available and Mahsemma agrees. He also tells Uno and Ragan to keep her safe until a boat can be found.

As they head back through town, Nine'eev asks who the woman was that gave Mahsemma all of her jewelry. Uno tells her it was Alliandre, the current Queen of Ghealdan. Alliandre is the fourth ruler since Mahsemma came to Ghealdan and the first to accommodate the Prophet. Uno says they are being followed by a Whitecloak. Nine'eev wishes to see his face so they turn a corner and she recognizes Galaad.





Chapter 40. The Wheel Weaves.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev ducks into an alley with Uno and Ragan, hoping to avoid Galaad who was following her. Galaad finds her though and faces down Uno and Ragan. Nine'eev agrees to let him approach so they can talk. As she asks questions he mentions Salidar and Nine'eev suddenly remembers that that is the name of the village where the Rebel Eyes Sedai are gathering. Galaad offers to find a ship for her even though she didn't ask. Nine'eev finally decides to trust Galaad will not betray them to the Whitecloaks (but only because they are not currently in Amadicia, where channelers are outlawed). He believes Nine'eev promised they would head to Kaymlin, but she avoided making any promises on where they would go. Galaad asks after Igwayne, but Nine'eev will only say that she is far from Ghealdan.

Galaad leaves and the others head back to the menagerie with Nine'eev pondering what to do with Uno and Ragan. They agree to go with her and Elayne, bringing the rest of the Shienarans that aren't committed to Mahsemma. Elayne and Birgitte join her and let her know she caused a lot of worry, leaving without telling anyone where or why. Nine'eev relates the events from the town until they stop at the place where she and Birgitte will perform. Nine'eev is still apprehensive over being a human target. Birgitte bullies her into taking her place at one end of the green. Suddenly the arrows start arriving, outlining her body. Nine'eev's screams rise higher and higher with each one.





Chapter 41. The Craft of Kin Tovere.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is surveying his forces camped a few miles from the city of Kai'rienne while talking with the Tairen High Lord Weiramon. Weiramon is very arrogant and assumes that if he attacks the Shaido with his cavalry he will win without any other help. Aviendha is nearby with the Wise Ones and so are the Eye’eel clan chiefs. Aviendha has been acting friendly but not intimate to Rand since their return from Shawn'chin. Rand makes his way to a log tower that has been built for observing. Igwayne has agreed to use the One Power in the coming battle with the Shaido, but Mworane can't because the Three Oaths of an Eyes Sedai prevent it.

Rand climbs the tower along with the clan chiefs. Kin Tovere is setting up the second of his far-seeing tubes which allows Rand and the chiefs to observe the Shaido much better than they could otherwise. Couladin has blockaded the river to prevent supplies or reinforcements from reaching the city. Rand spots Couladin on a hilltop, then sees something streak past his field of vision, which kills two of the Shaido on the hilltop. It appears to be a spear, but it was shot from the city. Rand can't understand how it was done.





Chapter 42. Before the Arrow.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat won't view himself as a hero or a soldier despite the many memories of battles he now has. Mat has decided to leave Rand and his war with the Shaido and find someplace more peaceful where he is less likely to get stuck by a spear or arrow. Mat makes his way to Rand's tent to bid farewell, but Rand is out and about right then. He exchanges some comments with Natael, then turns his attention to the two maps set up for the coming battle. Couladin has around one hundred and sixty thousand spears with him. There are also four clans that haven't aligned with Rand coming from behind that have near the same number. Rand and his seven clans have as many as both groups together, enough to successfully fight either group, but not enough to fight both groups at the same time.

LAN enters and prods Mat about his thoughts on the troop dispositions. As Mat gives a synopsis of the strategy he thinks should be used, he recalls similar battles he fought as other men, some back to the time of the Trolloc Wars. After he finishes, he realizes he should have kept his mouth shut and decides to leave, but Rand is standing behind him. Mat tells Rand he is leaving and Rand just says he is sorry to see him go. After Mat leaves he feels much better and he can almost hear the dice spinning in his head.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand and LAN discuss Mat's battle strategy and find it is nearly the same as the plans made with the clan chiefs. Rand has his own memories, from Lews Therin, but they aren't as helpful at understanding war when he has no prior experience himself. The clan chiefs arrive along with Weiramon representing the Tairen and Cairhienin forces. They make final changes to the plan of battle based on their observations from the tower.





Chapter 43. This Place, This Day.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand wonders if there was anything he could have done during his time in the Waste that would have prevented this day of battle where so many would die. The clan chiefs arrive for a few last words before battle. They mention that the Maidens are unhappy with the role Rand has chosen them, which will keep them out of the main battle. LAN arrives without Mworane, who will be Healing those who are injured. When he and LAN exit the tent they find the hilltop surrounded and wall-to-wall with Eye’eel Maidens and his horse is not there for him to mount. The maidens were assigned to guard Igwayne and Aviendha while they channeled from the tower. They plan to force Rand to also go to the tower and channel rather than try to engage in fighting with his sword. After thinking a bit and listening the Maidens chanting, Rand announces that he has decided he can aid the battle most by going to the tower to channel.

Igwayne and Aviendha channel a storm, then start using lightning to attack the Shaido positions. Rand channels a massive fireball that makes a hilltop glassy and lower than it was. Then from nowhere he hears inside his head, Ilyena, my love, forgive me!, which almost makes him lose the Void he needs for channeling.

Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat is making his escape from Rand, but is delayed by Eye’eel that are moving here and there for the coming battles. He reaches the top of a high hill and spots a force of Tairens and Cairhienin moving in three groups through the valley below him. He notices some movement ahead of the column and uses his looking glass to spot a group of Eye’eel moving to attack the column. Mat hardly understands why when he rides down to intervene in the coming slaughter. He starts giving orders to the different groups in the name of the Lord Dragon, which he hopes will be enough to be obeyed. He gives orders that will have the lead cavalry group encircled by the pikes for the initial Eye’eel attack.

He goes to the trailing group of cavalry and has them split up to flank the Eye’eel when they attack the pike formation. The leader, Tahlmahness, agrees but only if Mat leads one of the flanking groups. Mat agrees and so loses his opportunity to escape. Mat leads his four hundred men to the crest of the hill above the fighting. Not all of the Tairens followed orders and are outside of the pike formation getting slaughtered. Mat and Tahlmahness lead their groups in a charge upon the unsuspecting Eye’eel.





Chapter 44. The Lesser Sadness.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is weary from channeling on top of the tower to aid his forces in the battle with the Shaido. Igwayne and Aviendha are there also but take turns channeling so one can rest. A sortie from the city failed and the Eye’eel are on the verge of getting through the gates when Rand channels lighting into the Shaido. Some of the defenders are killed also, but it allows enough time for the gates to be closed. Suddenly, a bolt of lighting crashes into the Maidens below, then more bolts which Rand can feel are being channeled by a man. One finally hits the base of the tower which begins to tip over. He grabs Igwayne and Aviendha and an upright and rides the tower down. The fall knocks him unconscious and opens up the half-healed wound in his side. When he wakes Aviendha is there, caressing his face and telling him he cannot die. Around him are many dead and injured Maidens so his plan to keep the Maidens safe away from the battle failed and he blames himself.

He realizes it was not Asmodean but Sammael that launched the attack on him. Aviendha and Igwayne restrain him and convince him not to seek revenge right then. Rand decides to ride around the battlefield to help if he can and is able to keep the injured Maidens away from battle, but Sulin says the remaining Maidens will go with him. Feeling he cannot deny her, Rand seizes siedeen and prepares to get involved in the fighting again.

Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat is still with the Tairen and Cairhienin forces and is not sure how he got caught up in the fighting or why he hasn't managed to get away. Estean, Tahlmahness, Daerid, and Nalesean join him scouting out the area. They expect Mat to find them another fight which they can win. Nalesean tells Mat that another force of Eye’eel is heading toward them and will be there in thirty minutes or so. Daerid's scouts believe Couladin is leading this group of Shaido. Mat sets out his plans with the pikes to hold position while the cavalry come in from behind. He tells the men to shout that they are protecting the Lord Dragon―this will draw Couladin in. The dice are still spinning in Mat's head.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

It is night time and Rand is exhausted, not thinking clearly. Sammael has been involved in the battle at times but nothing was resolved between them. He wonders where Igwayne and Aviendha went to. Sulin informs him they went to the Wise Ones and Mworane at dusk. The Maidens finally lead his horse back toward camp. Asmodean comes over with a water bag just as Rand starts rambling about Sammael and battles that occurred during the Age of Legends. LAN comes over to let Rand know the battle is over, the remnants of the Shaido are fleeing. Rand finally releases siedeen and collapses from the pain and exhaustion he was not feeling. Asmodean gives Rand a small amount of Healing.





Chapter 45. After the Storm.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat is bruised and wounded from the fighting and tired from lack of sleep. He is still pondering how he managed to get in to so many battles when he was trying to avoid them completely. A drunken victory celebration is going on around him. Mat regrets teaching the men a song from his memories because they won't stop singing Dance with Jak o' the Shadows. Just as he is considering getting away, Melindhra shows up, greeting him as a hero. She is proud of him for seeking out and killing Couladin, although of course Mat did not do any seeking out.

Nalesean and Tahlmahness come over to encourage him to get the accolades they deserve for defeating Couladin. They regard Mat as their leader, which he tries to avoid but fails. They start competing with each other on who can assist Mat the most.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand awakes in his tent after being healed by Mworane. Aviendha is sitting nearby and Natael is there also. A large force of Shaido escaped to the north and destroyed the bridges to prevent pursuit. The Tairen lords are in charge of the city and attempted to visit Rand while he was resting. They were sent away, very angry that they did not get to meet with Rand. Rand finally sends Natael off to get his horse so he can make his entrance into Kai'rienne sooner than expected and hopefully take them by surprise.





Chapter 46. Other Battles, Other Weapons.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Aviendha is trying to get Rand to rest, but he wishes to get dressed and head to Kai'rienne before the time the nobles have planned so he can catch them off guard. Aviendha is sitting on his clothes with her skirts spread out to hide them but he spots a cuff and has her move so he can dress. Asmodean returns, riding his mule and leading Rand's horse. On the way to the city he passes by some of the twenty thousand Shaido prisoners who will become gai'shain. He also notices many Eye’eel are wearing a scarlet headband, but is unsure what it means. He passes by Kadere's wagons where Mworane is inspecting the ter'angreal, as usual.

Rand passes through the burned Foregate, then the gates of the city while word of his coming races ahead to the palace. As he rides along, the citizens and refugees cheer wildly. Meilan, the leader of the Tairen nobles arrives and explains the arrangements he has made for Rand at the palace. The nobles from Tear meet him in the courtyard, where he greets some warmly to get them off balance and watching each other. He enters the Grand Hall where the Tairens are grouped in front while the Cairhienin are in back.

Rand asks for a chair rather than sitting in the throne, indicating the throne is meant for someone else. He orders all the nobles to rearrange themselves by rank instead of by nation. The Tairens are unhappy, seeing their power base stripped away. The nobles of both nations then come forward to swear allegiance to Rand. As the procession continues Rand ponders his next step: going after Sammael.





Chapter 47. The Price of a Ship.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev is getting ready for a new day after a night of bad dreams where everything went wrong. Igwayne kept appearing in her dreams and Nine'eev doesn't understand because Igwayne didn't fit in with the subject of the dreams. The hot days, close confines, and the tension of waiting for a ship has Elayne and Nine'eev at odds again. Between barbs they compare notes on their dreams and find out they were getting the same messages from Igwayne. Rand won a battle at Kai'rienne. Since their encounter with Moghedien in Tel'aran'rhiod, they have not been going to the World of Dreams, except as scheduled to meet Igwayne.

Birgitte enters the wagon and reports that Thom and Jeweleen are back from town. Since they were not asked to go into town, Elayne and Nine'eev leave the wagon to have a talk with them. They report rioting in town and fear worse may be coming. As they are deciding whether to flee the area, Uno arrives with word of a ship docked in town. Uno explains that Mahsemma's people found the ship, then Whitecloaks seized the docks and the ship. That is what started the rioting. Nine'eev realizes that when she set both groups to helping her, the result was not what she wanted.

Galaad arrives then, also to let them know there is a ship at the docks. They pack up, say their goodbyes and head in to town with the Shienarans and Galaad as protection. Luca decides it is time for the menagerie to leave the area, before the riots arrive. Luca pulls Nine'eev aside and asks her to stay with the menagerie, to stay with him, rather than leave. Nine'eev says she cannot because she is betrothed to another and after Luca declares she is the only woman for him, he says she will change her mind one day and he will find her again. 

Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne is still upset that Nine'eev requested a ship from two groups, with the resulting conflict going on around them. Elayne goes to talk to the Shawn'chin refugee, Cerandin, to ask her to leave the menagerie and accompany her instead. Cerandin will not leave the s'redit though. She tells Cerandin that she is the Daughter-heir of Andor, expecting the Shawn'chin obedience to nobles will change her mind, but Cerandin doesn't believe her. As they return to the wagons, Birgitte also expresses her disbelief, even though Elayne insists it is the truth. Finally, Elayne screams loudly in frustration, then strides off to the wagon.





Chapter 48. Leavetakings.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev gathers the things that will not be left behind, including their gold, letters of rights, the gems from Amathera, her herbs, the letter from Sewan, and the Seal on the Dark One's prison. The Seal is emanating an evil aura but Nine'eev thinks she might be imagining it. She leaves the a'dam, the silver arrow, and other things for Elayne to take. Elayne comes in and there is still tension between the two, mostly shown by stares and silence. Thom and Jeweleen are outside when they leave the wagon, with much smaller bundles. Birgitte does not bring as much, either. Various performers come over to say goodbye and wish them well. Luca comes over last with flowers and flowery words for Nine'eev which infuriates her. They meet up with the rest of the Shienarans and head toward Samara and the ship waiting at the docks.

In Samara the mob has destroyed buildings, set fires, and killed people, but initially there is no one visible as they enter the gates. Then the mob comes into their street and immediately charges. Nine'eev and Elayne are prepared to channel, but do not for fear that Moghedien might be able to find them if they do. The Shienarans, Thom, Jeweleen, and Birgitte easily defend Nine'eev and Elayne, but Galaad plows through the mob and finally breaks their will with his excellent swordplay. They finally reach the Whitecloak perimeter, then the docks and the boat.

There is a large group of refugees on the docks and Nine'eev insists to the ship captain that they be allowed to board. Elayne and Nine'eev thank Galaad for his help. As he leaves, he warns them to stay away from Rand al'Thor because he will break the world again.





Chapter 49. To Boannda.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev forces Captain Agni Neres of the Riverserpent to take all of the refugees on the docks aboard his ship. She pays him what she thinks is a reasonable fare for their passage. Nine'eev and Elayne take over the captain's tiny cabin. Elyane is upset because Neres is a smuggler, but Nine'eev points out they have used similar men in the past. Elayne blackmails Neres into throwing much of his cargo in the river to give the refugees room in the hold.

They begin making good time down the river with the sails full. Nine'eev finally accuses Elayne of channeling wind the way she learned from the Sea Folk Windfinder. Over the next days the tension between Nine'eev, Elayne, and Birgitte finally begins to fade since they can't vent on the ship with everyone watching and listening. Nine'eev heals the wounded Shienarans but does so carefully so no one knows she channeled.

Nine'eev becomes close with several women on the boat. Nicola, who lost her future husband to the prophet; Marigan, with two sons that don't speak; and Areina. A comment Nine'eev makes to Elayne makes Birgitte aware the Elayne really is the Daughter-heir of Andor. They reach Boannda the third day where most of the refugees depart. Nicola, Marigan, and Areina stay on, though. After they leave the city, Nine'eev tells Neres the next destination is Salidar. Nine'eev goes to sleep with the dream ring ter'angreal, hoping to meet Igwayne in Tel'aran'rhiod, but she doesn't show up.

Elayne and Nine'eev begin going to Tel'aran'rhiod together, with Elayne using a ter'angreal taken from Liandrin's group of Black Sisters in Tear. The two gather information from the White Tower, try to learn more about Tel'aran'rhiod, and occasionally have a bit of fun. They meet Igwayne and Amys, who are surprised to find both women there at the same time. Nine'eev keeps trying to ask about the messages Igwayne passed to her in her dreams but Igwayne keeps interrupting her to change the topic. Igwayne was not supposed to do that unsupervised so she is trying to avoid the Wise Ones finding out. After the meeting ends, Elayne and Nine'eev meet Igwayne in Sheriam's study, where she dresses them down for not keeping secret what they were told to keep secret. After five days of travel on the river they reach the vicinity of Salidar and everyone is rowed ashore.





Chapter 50. To Teach, and Learn.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Elayne and Nine'eev do not receive the welcome they expected from the Eyes Sedai in Salidar. Instead of triumphant heroes they are treated as runaways. Sewan and Lee’ahnna are also brought in, to explain their actions in letting Accepted chase after the Black Ajah. Much attention is paid to some of their possessions, especially the dream ter'angreal, the a'dam, and the Seal to the Dark One's prison. Sewan is questioned on the wisdom of giving passes signed by the Amyrlin to Accepted. Elayne and Nine'eev are to teach the Eyes Sedai how to reach Tel'aran'rhiod. Finally they are acquitted of being runaways so they can resume their training to become Eyes Sedai. They are also to work with Sewan and Lee’ahnna to explain in more detail what they have done since they left the tower. Just before they are dismissed to find rooms and proper dresses, the Eyes Sedai ask again about the Seal. Even though it is cuendillar, the Seal is broken and the fragments can be crumbled by hand. As far as is known, only three Seals remain unbroken, which has everyone worried.

In the common room, Thom, Jeweleen, and Uno are talking, while Nicola and Areina are gaping at everything going on around them. Marigan is sitting with Birgitte and her children. Min is there also, waiting to talk to them about where Rand might be. Thom, Jeweleen, and Uno offer to take Nine'eev and Elayne away from the mad women who "think" they can depose Elaida. But both have reasons for aligning themselves with the Salidar Eyes Sedai, so they will not leave. Gareth Bryne joins the group and asks Uno and the Shienarans to join his army and Thom to help with the Game of Houses, which they agree to do.

The group breaks up as the men find tasks to do and Elayne goes off to talk with Min. Sewan latches on to Nine'eev to ask questions about what they have been doing. Sewan insists on learning how to use the ring ter'angreal to enter Tel'aran'rhiod. They both start blackmailing each other to get what they want and finally reach agreement to be keep each other's secrets. Nine'eev will get the chance to study the stilled women to see if they can be Healed.

Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne finds Min and finally asks about her viewings of Rand. Min admits that she saw that Elayne would fall in love with Rand, but can't tell how Rand feels in return. She also asks about having to share Rand with another woman. Min says that that there are two other women and that she is one of them. Elayne helps Min with laundry while listening to her tale of the journey from Tar Vawlyn.



Unanswered Questions[]


Why did Min think the third woman she and Elayne would share Rand with was Cairhienin?




Chapter 51. News Comes to Kai'rienne.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is taking a break from a meeting while Selande tries to seduce him. He scares her away with talk of channeling and going mad eventually. He is making plans on how to take care of Sammael in Illian and deal with all the other situations around him, including Whitecloaks and Ogiers. He also has to deal with all the plots of the nobles that are supposedly his allies. Rand invites Lady Colavaere to dine with him alone so he can tell her to stop sending women after him.

Mworane brings two letters from Tar Vawlyn: Elaida and Alviarin each wrote to him. Elaida tells him an escort will arrive so he can be brought to Tar Vawlyn for protection until the Last Battle. Alviarin writes a flattering letter without saying much except to keep the letter secret. Mworane and Igwayne read both letters.

Mat arrives and Rand puts him to work planning and leading the effort to attack Sammael and Illian. Mat has been getting more recruits than he can use and has named his force the Band of the Red Hand, after a famed group that defended Manetheren during the Trolloc Wars. Mat led his group against the Andorans that are trying to take Kai'rienne for Gaebril and won three victories. Mat gets irate at being prodded by Mworane, then gives out the latest rumor, that Morgays, Elayne's mother is dead. Rand knew that Gaebril (who is really Rahvin) was keeping Morgays under control but resisted attacking in that direction because he thought that was what the Forsaken wanted him to do. Rand wants to go immediately, but Mworane suggests waiting until tomorrow.

Rand has his talk with Mat, laying out his plans for the Band.

Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Mworane tells Igwayne and Aviendha to be careful tomorrow, then leaves. Aviendha then has to leave to let the Wise Ones know of tomorrow's plans.

Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat is upset at his inability to get away from Rand. He was trying when he ended up fighting the Andorans and he can't think of a way of leaving that won't end up with him getting caught or being in a battle again. He starts giving his goodbyes to Melindhra as part of his escape plan and she berates him for not seeking out his own destiny. Mat makes a slip and mentions Kaymlin, which causes Melindhra to attack and try to kill him. He is dazed and on his back while she grabs a knife to finish him off. He takes a knife from his sleeve and throws it, and wishes it back in his hand immediately. Before she dies he asks why, and she mentions other oaths she has that are more important. She makes one last attempt with the knife but it hits Mat's foxhead medallion and the blade breaks. She curses that he has the Great Lord's own luck and notices her knife has golden bees on the hilt. Mat realizes that she was a Darkfriend and most likely working for Sammael. As he tries to think of what to do, he feels the dice spinning in his head, again.





Chapter 52. Choices.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Today Rand plans to kill Rahvin who is masquerading as Gaebril in Kaymlin. Rand forgot his dinner meeting with Colavaere since he was busy planning the battle with the clan chiefs and Wise Ones. Aviendha took care of her, making sure she stops sending young women after Rand. Asmodean enters and wishes to travel to Kaymlin rather than wait behind watching the nobles in Kai'rienne. Mat waits outside and explains that he had to kill Melindhra last night when she tried to kill him. They notice that all of the Maidens are missing and no one is quite sure why. Mworane arrives with Igwayne and gives Rand two letters, one from Mworane to Rand and the other to Thom Merrilin. She then tells him he must come down to the docks to see something.

Point of view: Hadnan Kadere.

Kadere is in his wagon by the dock where it is already hot even early in the morning. He watches as Rand arrives with his party. Yesterday Mworane had him help uncover the twisted redstone doorway from the wagon behind his. He notices the way Aviendha looks at Rand, which confirms his belief that she is sleeping with him. Keille is suddenly there greeting him and they go in to his wagon. He almost screams when he sees it is Lanfear in his wagon now instead of Keille. He begins to give her all the news he can think of, hoping it will be enough to save his life.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand becomes impatient with Mworane for dragging him down to the docks with no explanation. Suddenly Kadere's wagon explodes and Lanfear steps out holding Kadere's skin, then tossing it away. She remarks to Lews Therin that Kadere told him about Aviendha. Mworane charges, which causes LAN to charge also until he runs into a wall of something. Both are then flung aside. Rand channels and tries to create a dome with just himself and Lanfear inside, so the battle will not affect the others nearby. Aviendha and Igwayne are inside the dome, though, and Lanfear begins to torture them, asking which is Aviendha. Rand cuts her flows, which angers her. Rand then says he will never love one of the Forsaken, so Lanfear decides to kill him if he can't be hers. Rand drives her back toward the wagon with the ter'angreal while she battles back. She climbs into the wagon and picks up a dark ivory bracelet that was laying there, an angreal for women. She begins to boast of what she will do to him. He thinks of ways to kill her, but can't bring himself to kill a woman, even one of the Forsaken. Lanfear is slowly killing him.

Point of view: Mworane Dawmodred.

Mworane crawls out from under the wagon to see Rand suffering and Lanfear in the wagon with the Twisted redstone doorframe behind her. The scene is the same she has seen since her trip to the ter'angreal in Roy'deonne that shows possible futures. This is one possible future that she knew would come to pass. She put the ivory bracelet angreal in a particular spot to draw Lanfear onto the wagon. Mworane embraces the source and charges at Lanfear, tearing away the angreal and forcing both of them through the doorway.





Chapter 53. Fading Words.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand watches as Mworane and Lanfear tumble through the Twisted redstone doorframe and disappear. Lanfear's channeling stops and a white light blazes from the ter'angreal. Rand uses air to hold LAN so he won't charge after Mworane through the burning doorway. His Warder bond with Mworane is broken, which happens on the death of the Eyes Sedai. Igwayne appears to have suffered greatly from Lanfear's torture while Aviendha appears to be alright. Amys and Bair rush in to see what they can do. Igwayne needs a long period of rest and is forbidden from meeting Nine'eev and Elayne or making any trips to Tel'aran'rhiod. The whole city seems to be watching the docks now as Rand decides what to do next. Mworane had arranged for her bond to LAN to pass to another Eyes Sedai, to take effect on her death. LAN must go to this new Eyes Sedai, somewhere in the far west.

Rand wishes to mourn, but can't find it in himself. He remembers the letter Mworane gave him before they left the palace and reads it. Her trip to Roy'deonne gave her some glimpses of possible futures. Many paths led to the events of this morning, but there were three possible outcomes:



Lanfear and Mworane dead, which is what happened
Rand dead at Lanfear's hand
Rand captured by Lanfear and taken over by Lews Therin


She cautions him about sisters from the White Tower who might be Black Ajah or might have plans of their own that will interfere. She specifically mentions Alviarin and Verin as Eyes Sedai to be warry of. Mworane also reveals that she was aware that Natael is Asmodean and gives guarded approval.

Sulin arrives and finds him weeping. She begins to break her spears but Rand stops her from continuing, asking what she is doing. She asks in reply if he plans to force the Maidens to marry and tend hearths or act as pets to him. She is angry that no Maidens have been chosen for the battle with Rahvin, only male societies were picked. Rand finally agrees that Maidens can come along, as many as any other society. Outside all of the Maidens are waiting to see if Rand accepts them again as warriors. Mat joins him and they leave to docks to get ready to travel to Kaymlin.





Chapter 54. To Kaymlin.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Several thousand Eye’eel, including five hundred Maidens are gathered in a courtyard in Kai'rienne. Pevin, Rand's standard bearer, is the only non-Eye’eel going to Kaymlin for the fight against the Forsaken Rahvin. Rand makes a Skimming Gateway, steps through, then creates a platform for the Eye’eel to stand on. He makes it as large as he can, but it is not large enough to hold everyone that wants to come. Aviendha joins Rand on the platform as do Bael, Pevin, Mat, Asmodean, and Sulin, followed by a large stream of Eye’eel. Rand closes the Gateway and the platform begins to move toward Kaymlin. Along the way someone falls and Rand worries that it was one of the Maidens. They arrive and Rand opens a Gateway so they can exit the platform below the wall he climbed when he met Elayne for the first time.

As the Eye’eel spread out Rand notices that only the Eye’eel are visible; no people are around even though there should be at this time of day. The wall next to him topples outward and Trollocs pour out. Then lightning is channeled on his group and his shield to block it is too slow. Rand makes his shield huge, then ties it off and looks around. Mat's body lies nearby next to Asmodean…and Aviendha. The death of his friends sends Rand into a rage and he goes directly after Rahvin. He opens a different type of Gateway and steps through into the palace where Rahvin sits on the Lion Throne.

Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev is trying to teach Sewan about Tel'aran'rhiod. They are doing this during the day to keep it secret from the other Eyes Sedai. Theodrin has been assigned to help Nine'eev break down the block she has that only lets her channel when angry. Nine'eev and Sewan begin prodding each other with the unpleasant things going on in each other's situation. Finally Sewan slaps Nine'eev and they begin fighting and rolling around on the ground. Sewan finally begins laughing and they agree that there are better ways to settle their differences.

Nine'eev thinks she saw a face in a window and decides it would be best if they leave Tel'aran'rhiod. Sewan argues against it, so Nine'eev rips away the twisted stone ring ter'angreal to force her out. Nine'eev doesn't leave though, but moves somewhere else. She is afraid she will have to confess to Sheriam what she knows about Moghedien and about seeing her in tel'aran'rhiod which will mean more punishments and chores for having kept it a secret. 

Moghedien finds her and begins taunting her again, planning how to collect her. Because Nine'eev is using the amber plaque, she only has access to a trickle of the One Power. Moghedien senses this and, not feeling threatened, is taking her time. Birgitte shows up so she can find out why Nine'eev forced Sewan out of the World of Dreams but Moghedien captures her, making her a child. Nine'eev begins to beg for mercy as she walks toward Moghedien. When she gets close she imagines an a'dam linking them, with Moghedien wearing the collar. Once Nine'eev is in charge, she presses Moghedien for information on the other Forsaken. Moghedien tells of a plot to have Rand attack Sammael while other Forsaken wait to help capture him. She then reveals that Rand plans to attack Rahvin in Kaymlin today and that Rahvin is prepared. Nine'eev resolves to go to Kaymlin with Moghedien, even though she might not be able to do anything from Tel'aran'rhiod.





Chapter 55. The Threads Burn.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is chasing Rahvin through the palace with Rahvin leaving much damage and many of his supporters dead in his attacks. They are nearly equal in the power, but Rand has the fat man angreal which makes him much stronger. A Myrddraal leading a group of guards comes upon Rand and he channels cold so intense the Myrdraal breaks apart. Many thoughts from Lews Therin come into his head, mostly of Ilyena being dead. Rahvin channels balefire at Rand, which he barely avoids, then returns the same at Rahvin. Afterwords Rand recognizes the residue of a Gateway to Travel into Tel'aran'rhiod. He makes a similar Gateway and enters the World of Dreams to continue the battle.

Rahvin tries to "unmake" Rand, but fails due to knowledge from Lews Therin. Rand sends lightning bolts through all the doorways and passages nearby.

Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev finds herself in the middle of a battle between Rand and Rahvin. In between retching (because she has tried to take off the a'dam), Moghedien pleads with her to leave the place because it is dangerous. Nine'eev ignores her and decides that she may know more about Tel'aran'rhiod than Rahvin does, which she sees as an advantage. The two argue for a considerable time until Moghedien simply refuses to move from where she is because of the danger. Nine'eev punishes her through the a'dam with her own flows for her intransigence, and she is not gentle. Finally, Moghedien comes around. Just about then there is a huge commotion so bad that the two women can hardly keep their feet. It is obvious that the battle continues, and what's more they can hear the sound of a man running. She realizes that the Spider is a raving coward and it almost makes her feel brave. She pulls Moghedien behind her and chases the fading steps.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand continues the battle with Rahvin. Rahvin creates a Gateway and when Rand approaches to learn where it goes, he is caught in a trap instead. Rand is being turned into an animal of some kind, which will then have no access to the One Power.

Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev, with Moghedien, continues to follow the footsteps she hears, but avoids getting too close. She gets a glimpse of the man and finds it is not Rand, then continues to follow him as stealthily as she can. Finally she spots him without being seen and channels fire so that it fills the space Rahvin is in, floor to ceiling and wall to wall as hot as she can make it. Rahvin is horribly burned but he quickly puts up a shield of air to protect himself from the flames, then he turns towards Nine'eev.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Nine'eev's attack on Rahvin sets Rand free. Rand notices the fire from the balcony above, then Rahvin backs out of the fire, facing an unseen attacker. Rand unleashes all of the siedeen he holds into a balefire attack. Rahvin simply ceases to exist.

Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev is afraid that Rahvin will attack and kill her and Moghedien. Just as he is about to attack, a white bar turns him to mist. Rand climbs the stairs, appearing in front of her. She makes the leash on the a'dam disappear, which continues to work as Elayne said it would. Nine'eev tells him that the Wise Ones say it is evil to come to Tel'aran'rhiod in the flesh and it rips something from you. Nine'eev offers to heal Rand and he allows it, and she feels all his hurts, even the old wound in his side. Rand wants Nine'eev to tell Elayne to forget him because he has something else to love. He also tells Nine'eev that LAN says the same to her. 

She then deals with Moghedien by making her drink a cup of forkroot. Before Moghedien sleeps, Nine'eev mentions some things Moghedien said that Nine'eev had never mentioned in Tel'aran'rhiod thus realising that Moghedien must be physically sleeping in Salidar (coming there as Marigan with Nine'eev and Elayne). Finally, Nine'eev tells her that she will see her in Salidar.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand exits the palace to find a huge mass of Myrddraal and Trollocs attacking the rise where his banner flies. He uses small weaves of balefire, many at once, to attack. The Shadowspawn finally begin to flee.

The next thing Rand sees is Asmodean, Aviendha and Mat. He runs and hugs both Aviendha and Mat, who remember nothing of their deaths. The balefire that he had used on Rahvin wiped Rahvin's thread from the pattern far back enough that they hadn't been attacked and killed. Not everyone survived, though, and Rand is sad for those that didn't, especially the Maidens.



Unanswered Questions[]


Why is it evil to enter Tel'aran'rhiod in the flesh?




Chapter 56. Glowing Embers.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

The Myrddraal and the remaining Trollocs are being hunted down by Eye’eel and citizens in Kaymlin. Soldiers that had first attacked Rand and his people are now also chasing down the Shadowspawn. Those loyal to Gaebril instead of Queen Morgays would have to be sorted out later.

General Bashere comes to Rand. Rand orders that Mazrim Taim is to be handed over to him as soon as he is found. Rand tells him that he is creating an amnesty protecting all men that could channel. Besides protection men can come to him for instruction in the One Power. They will be needed to face the Dreadlords serving the Shadow during the Last Battle.

Lord Bashere said other nations may pledge to follow Rand, seeing he's the Dragon Reborn, but he could not be certain. Lord Bashere then pledges his 9,000 Saldaean soldiers to Rand to prove his loyalty.

Point of view: Asmodean.

Asmodean is trying to puzzle out what happened that morning, but has a strong suspicion. Many Eye’eel told him that they had seen him dead. Unless they are mistaken, only use of balefire could account for the difference between what some saw and the current situation. He also knew his immortality was gone as he was reborn and wondered if he still had a tie to the Great Lord. 

Asmodean enters a wine cellar in search of good wine when he suddenly encounters someone he was not expecting. His last words before he is killed are "You? No!"

Point of view: Morgays Trakand.

Morgays is still in search of supporters wanting to help her regain the throne. She is accompanied by Lini, Basel Gill, Breane Taborwin, Lamgwin and Tallanvor (who is starting to treat her familiarly).





