Chapter 0. Lord of Chaos/Prologue.






Point of view: Demandred.


Demandred arrives at Shay'ole Ghoul in response to a summons from the Great Lord of the Dark. Constructs are making new blades for Myrddraal, but it requires a human victim for each, and they do not have many victims available. A Myrddraal much taller than normal addresses Demandred and calls itself Shaidar Haran which means Hand of the Dark. Inside the mountain is a point where a thinness in the pattern allows him to sense his master. Demandred passes on the information he has which is that Rahvin is dead, Lanfear has vanished and Moghedien did not meet with Graendal as planned. The Great Lord is aware that Asmodean is now dead, branded by him a traitor. Demandred receives his orders.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev is examining Sewan and Lee’ahnna to see if she can figure out what needs to be healed to reverse their stilling. Normally Nine'eev can't channel unless angry. Today she is using the a'dam which links her to Moghedien, allowing her to use the Forsaken's channeling ability. In Salidar, Moghedien is known as Marigan, a widow with two young children, but that is just a pretense. Sewan is very pessimistic about the possibility of being Healed and believes the effort is a waste of time.

Elayne enters and is furious because an embassy is being sent to Rand in Kaymlin but she isn't allowed to go. Sewan reveals that nine Eyes Sedai are being sent as an emissary to Rand. Elayne also refuses to believe that her mother is dead, even though there aren't any rumors that she is alive or trying to regain her throne. She is told that Min will be going too, which irks Elayne since both of them are in love with Rand.

By rights, Moghedien should be turned over to the Eyes Sedai, followed shortly by a trial and execution. But Elayne and Nine'eev are learning things from the Age of Legends that they believe are worth the delay. Moghedien claims the unnatural heat across the land is the Dark One's work.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne decides she needs to find Min so they can have a talk about Rand. She is stopped in the street by Janya and Anaiya who praise her for the discoveries she is making with the One Power. With the exception of Elayne's ability to make ter'angreal, all their discoveries have come from Moghedien, but Janya and Anaiya don't know that. 

Min was worried that getting the chance to go to Rand might change the friendship between her and Elayne. Elayne assures her that won't happen. They talk for a while as friends until Min needs to leave.



Point of view: Faile Bashere.


Faile is holding court in the greatroom of her new house and is vexed that Pairin is avoiding the duty, again. The Two Rivers is changing, with many refugees from Almoth Plain and Tarabon crossing the Mountains of Mist, bringing new skills to the region. Faile settles a number of issues and begins to adjourn when the four Two Rivers Wisdoms arrive. Daise Congar tells Faile that Ewin Finngar, Elam Dowtry, and Dav Ayellin have run off to see the world after hearing Pairin's stories. The unnatural weather worries the Wisdoms and they don't know how to reassure the people that look to them for answers. Faile just tells them to go on as Two Rivers people have always gone on when troubles come along.

Faile tries to remind Pairin he has a duty to the Two Rivers people and needs to act more like a lord. He agrees about duty, but mentions he feels Rand's tahveeren nature tugging at him. Pairin plans to slip away quietly while Faile decides she will go with him and have a proper escort too.



Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Gawyn is reviewing the defensive positions of the Younglings under his command in advance of a meeting between Eyes Sedai and Shaido Wise Ones. The Eyes Sedai Gawyn escorts are going to Kai'rienne to request that the Dragon Reborn return with them to Tar Vawlyn. A traveling peddler comes along and Gawyn asks him for news, then almost strangles him when he learns that Rand has taken Kaymlin and Morgays is dead―at Rand's hands, rumor has it. If the rumors are true, then he intends to kill Rand.



Point of view: Katerine Alruddin.


Katerine is contemptuous of Sevanna and the Shaido Eye’eel as they conclude a treaty. Sevanna wants to see Rand after he is captured, though, before it is final. Katerine wonders if the Shaido can be used to eliminate Gawyn and the Younglings since they are a bit too independent for Elaida. She chats with Galina Casban, the head of the Red Ajah and also a fellow member with her in the Black Ajah.



Point of view: Sevanna.


Sevanna leads the Shaido as the widow of the last two clan chiefs. She has also managed to be declared a Wise One even though she has not had the training. She plans to lead the Shaido in conquest over all of the wetlanders. Key to her plans is to have Rand chained at her feet. She met with an unknown man who gave her some type of device that a Wise One that can channel can activate, to use when they have captured Rand.



Point of view: Morgays Trakand.


Morgays is meeting with the king of Amadicia, Ailron, looking for aid in regaining her throne from Gaebril. After Ailron leaves her, Tallanvor suggests they should have gone to Ghealdan instead of Amadicia. Morgays tries to put him in his place as a guard of the queen, but he ignores the supposed difference in their positions. Basel Gill and Lamgwin guard the door to her rooms. Inside Lini gives advice to Morgays while Breane listens.

Pedron Niall enters with just a bare knock on the door. He says he is not here to arrest her which reminds Morgays that even though she is very weak and rarely successful at channeling, it is still against the law in Amadicia. Niall tells her that Ailron will never give her the aid she seeks, but the Children of the Light have the resources to help her. He also tells her that the False Dragon, Rand al'Thor, has killed Gaebril and now holds Kaymlin. Niall believes that Rand is a false dragon and that Eyes Sedai do his channeling.

A young man brings in some cold punch. He is Paitr Conel and offers to help Morgays escape from the Whitecloaks. His uncle Jen Conel will think up a way to get her away. 



Point of view: Pedron Niall.


Niall doesn't believe in the Dragon Reborn, and not really even in the Dark One and expects the Last Battle to just be a fight with many Trollocs and other Shadowspawn. He intends to unite the nations of the West against Rand al'Thor so that they are ready for the next Trolloc invasion. Jay'kem Carriden is waiting for an audience and they enter his office. They discuss the Eyes Sedai in Salidar, but Niall has decided to leave them alone. Carriden will be sent to Altara, but not to Salidar.



Point of view: Mesaana.


Mesaana and Semirhage are waiting for Demandred to arrive with a message from the Great Lord. Mesaana is building a tower out of dominoes and Semirhage is knitting. Demandred finally arrives, then Graendal right after but Sammael refuses to come. Demandred says that their strongholds are well-suited to the Great Lord's current purposes. Demandred's message from the Great Lord was in part to "Let the Lord of Chaos Rule."



Point of view: Osan'gar.


Osan'gar is amazed that he is awake, even if he must use a different name than he used before. Aran'gar is in a similar situation but she seems irritated and is pacing the room. Shaidar Haran arrives in the room to give them their instructions. They were both Chosen that were killed and brought back by the Great Lord. They are given missions and sent out to fulfill them.





Chapter 1. Lion on the Hill.






Point of view: Omni.


A wind blows westward across Kai'rienne to the city of Maerone, then across the river to Aringill. The land is parched with summer temperatures even though the calendar indicates winter. The wind continues until it reaches Kaymlin, where it waves the banners of the Dragon Reborn and Andor.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is practicing the sword against the five best men he can find. Rand almost defeats them, but the last gets in a blow to his head. The nobles in Kaymlin give lavish praises to Rand's sword work, trying to curry favor. Davram Bashere challenges the wisdom of practicing against multiple opponents since a mistake is likely sooner or later. Davram Bashere throws a dagger at Rand, which Rand stops by channeling. The noblemen draw their swords and the Eye’eel Maidens begin to veil until Rand tells them all to stop. Bashere was just demonstrating that Rand's channeling is better than his sword for defending himself.

Rand is getting thoughts from Lews Therin more and more often now. He makes a comment about taking care of Sammael in Illian, which upsets the nobles who have trouble dealing with the idea that the Forsaken are really loose. Mat and Bashere have put together a good battle plan but it will take a while before it can be implemented.

One of Bashere's men comes in and announces a visitor at the gates: Mazrim Taim.





Chapter 2. A New Arrival.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


The Andoran nobles get flighty again when Mazrim Taim's arrival is announced and even the Eye’eel Maidens get tense. Rand declares that Taim is welcome under the amnesty Rand proclaimed for channelers. Rand needs male channelers to augment his forces for the Last Battle. Taim is ten to fifteen years older than Rand, surprising when madness usually overtakes channelers within a few years.

Taim is brought in and verbally spars with Davram Bashere while Rand fights to keep Lews Therin from taking over. He submits to Rand but Lews Therin wants him killed. Taim has a gift for Rand, one of the Seven Seals to the Dark One's prison, which gives him three unbroken seals. Driven by Lews Therin, Rand goes slightly mad and almost shatters the seal. Only Bashere's intervention prevents the seal's destruction. He gives the seal to Bashere to guard.

Rand decides to take Taim to the "farm".





Chapter 3. Lord of Chaos/Chapter 3.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand channels a Gateway to the farm, his training center for men who can channel. As he goes through, Aviendha calls for him to wait. Rand lets the Gateway close since he is avoiding her. Rand gives Taim some advice on the various dangers that threaten, the Forsaken, Trollocs, Myrddraal, Draghkar, Gray Men, Gholam, and Darkhounds. They arrive at the farm where women are doing laundry, children are playing, and a lot of men are doing chores. The men gather around and Rand asks Taim to begin testing them to see if they can channel since Rand does not know how.

Damer Flinn is picked by Taim as the first to be tested. Taim channels a flame between the men and then just waits to see if Damer feels something in time. After a few minutes Rand feels the resonance Taim spoke of, but Taim doesn't say anything for a couple more minutes so Rand noticed it sooner. The testing will take too long, so Rand decides to head back and leave the testing and training to Taim. Rand wants to have as many men as there are Eyes Sedai.

Rand asks Taim to seize siedeen so he can gauge his strength, which is a little short of Rand's. Lews Therin continues to pester Rand until he finally shouts at the voice in his head to shut up, which it does. Rand continues with his errands, but also with trying to dodge Aviendha. Rand travels to an empty tent, somewhere far away.





Chapter 4. A Sense of Humor.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand travels to the Plains of Maredo to talk about the attack on Illian and Sammael. Many of the Eye’eel wear a red headband with the Eyes Sedai symbol on it. Rand plans to meet with the clan chiefs and with Weiramon who is commanding the Tairen forces. While he goes to the meeting the Maidens and male Eye’eel trade insults, which they find hilarious and Rand finds baffling. Rand tells the Maidens a funny story but they completely miss the point and don't find it funny. He is told that some of the Tairen forces Rand was counting on have gone into rebellion against him instead.

Rand enters the tent where the Tairen and Cairhienin nobles wait. The clan chiefs arrive shortly after. Rand discusses his plans to attack Sammael, knowing there must be spies, so his real plans are being held close. Mostly he wants all the men to wait here until Mat arrives, and then wait some more until he is ready to attack. He leaves the noble lords and meets separately with the clan chiefs.

As he eats supper, some of the Maidens give him advice on how to re-attract Aviendha's attention, which he does not want to do. He finally goes back to Kaymlin late in the evening and sneaks into his room, where Aviendha is already resting.





Chapter 5. A Different Dance.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat is enjoying a pleasant evening of drinking and dancing with the barmaids and getting teased a bit along the way. Mat tries to teach the musicians some of the songs from his memory, but they don't play nearly as well as he remembers. Tahlmahness is musing aloud on how he recover from the gambling losses he has with Mat. Betse Silvin comes over to pour wine and Mat starts a conversation with her. She fiddles with his scarf and sees his hanging scar and wonders why someone would try to hang him. Mat gets her to dance, which stops her chattering for a while. When they finish Mat checks to make sure Betse is not the "Daughter of the Nine Moons", since it was foretold that that is who he will marry.

Mat has some of his soldiers perform policing duty for the rest of his troops, different men each day, called Redarms. There are many Hunters of the Horn in town. As far as Mat knows, it is still in the White Tower. Edorion mentions a rumor that Rand was in town recently, which surprises Mat since Rand came to his room by Gateway and no one else was around. During the meeting Rand was excited because he could see a good chance that he can unite all of the nations under him before the last battle.

Mat heads toward a disturbance in the street and finds a man shaking a little boy like a dog with a rat. It is a Hunter that is upset because the peasant boy sat on his horse. Mat disables him with the butt end of his spear and then when the Hunter's companion tries to draw his sword, disables him also. Edorion catches the boy and Mat notes that he is the ugliest boy he's ever seen. The boy's name is Olver and he is nine years old and horses like him. Estean comes up to Mat to announce a Sea Folk ship has come up the river. A Sea Folk wavemistress and her blademaster are aboard, but debark on the Andoran side of the river so Mat will not be able to find out what this is all about.

As evening falls, Mat is finished with his rounds and is back dancing with Betse. As the dancing finally winds down early in the morning Mat tells his officers the Band will be marching south at first light, so they better get busy preparing. 

In the morning, the troops pass in review. Mat has implemented a more formal military organization to the Band, based on his memories. Even marching fast with long days, it will take a month to reach the rest of the army in Tear.





Chapter 6. Threads Woven of Shadow.



Point of view: Sammael Setting: Arad Doman.


Sammael is plotting to become Nae’bliss, just as much as the other Forsaken must be. He is meeting Graendal at her palace in Arad Doman. Graendal enjoys subtly baiting Sammael as they debate what to do since Rand has killed off so many of the Forsaken. Moghedien, Lanfear, and Asmodean are still missing. Semirhage missed the last meeting with Graendal. 



Point of view: Graendal Setting: Arad Doman.


Graendal believes Rand is too dangerous to be allowed to live, but the Great Lord has forbidden direction action for now. She worries that the Great Lord wants Rand to be Nae’bliss. She plans to trick Sammael into killing Rand, since Sammael will be able to call it self defense when Rand attacks Illian.

Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day arrives for an audience, so Graendal switches to her guise as Lady Basene.



Point of view: Semirhage Setting: Shay'ole Ghoul.


Semirhage has been ordered by the Great Lord to extract information from an Eyes Sedai. She is the very best at extracting information. During the Age of Legends she was a renowned Healer, but she always enjoyed inflicting pain along with the Healing, for which she was disciplined. This eventually led her to become one of the Forsaken. After stimulating the pain centers in Cabriana Mecandes, she begins the interrogation. After leaving Cabriana, Semirhage beings interrogating Cabriana's warder in another room using pleasure instead of pain. She fails to pay attention and the warder dies of pleasure―he has also bitten off his tongue in a vain attempt to distract himself from the pleasure. When Semirhage goes back into the room with Cabriana, Cabriana seems much more pliable (due to bonding).





Chapter 7. A Matter of Thought.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne and Nine'eev are preparing for bed and a meeting in Tel'aran'rhiod. They are hoping to see Igwayne but she has been kept from Tel'aran'rhiod since her encounter with Lanfear six weeks ago. This meeting will be with the Eyes Sedai so they can learn some things before meeting with the Eye’eel Wise Ones the next night. Sewan and Lee’ahnna wait with them until Sheriam, Carlinya, Morvrin, Myrelle, Anaiya, and Beonin appear. The group moves to the White Tower so they can look through Elaida's correspondence and try to find out what is happening in the world. Lee’ahnna disappears and Nine'eev is sent after her.

The rest divide themselves between Elaida's correspondence and Alviarin's. They find a warrant for Mworane's arrest, which means that Elaida still does not know that Mworane is dead. Shemerin ran away after being demoted from Eyes Sedai to Accepted. The Blight is quiet. No news is coming from Tarabon or Arad Doman. Elaida still wants Elayne returned to the tower, no matter the cost. Suddenly there are screams from outside the room. The Eyes Sedai rush out and are caught in a nightmare.

Instead of a hallway there is a cavern filled with Trollocs. The three Eyes Sedai that had been in the other room are being tortured. The other three try to fight the nightmare but are drawn in to it also, despite Elayne trying to warn them. Elayne and Sewan try to dispel the nightmare but it is too large. They decide to enter the nightmare and get the Eyes Sedai to deny its existence. Finally they banish the nightmare, then return to the waking world to heal their injuries.

Elayne makes a quick trip to the palace in Kaymlin and notices the changes Rand has made, then returns to the waking world.

Point of view: Demandred.

Demandred notices Elayne, sees she dislikes changes Rand have made, but takes no action saying "let the Lord of Chaos rule".





Chapter 8. The Storm Gathers.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Elayne and Nine'eev discuss the previous evening and hope the Eyes Sedai will take their warnings to heart in the future, but don't really expect them to. Nine'eev is wearing the a'dam bracelet linking her to Moghedien, but Moghedien is washing laundry so Nine'eev can't interrogate her more about the One Power. Nine'eev enters an inn where Logain is telling some Altaran nobles the story of how the Red Ajah helped him instead of stopping him before he declared himself the Dragon Reborn. She finally finds Sewan and insists she let her study her stilling to see if she can Heal it.

Nine'eev senses a storm coming, but the weather is clear and very warm. The Yellow Ajah sisters tell her to forget about trying to Heal stilling but she refuses to comply. Theodrin comes up to her and they talk about the blocks on channeling. Nine'eev is still blocked and Theodrin is tasked to help her break it down. Nine'eev has been avoiding the attempts but now Theodrin insists they try every day. Moghedien finally arrives and tries to teach Nine'eev a complicated weave to detect men channeling.

Elayne enters and announces an emissary from Elaida has arrived. Tarna Feir is talking to the Hall of the Tower and they wonder what is being said.





Chapter 9. Plans.



Point of view: Pedron Niall.

Pedron Niall makes plans with his two spy masters. The first man is just the publicly known spy master who listens to gossip. His true spymaster is his grumpy secretary Sebban Balwer, who doesn't believe in anything unless there is plenty of proof. They talk about Morgays deciding that she has to give in and let them escort her to Kaymlin to take the throne back for her. The Children of the Light would then get to come and go through Andor whenever they wished. They decide that she will have to give in sooner or later, since the longer she stays penned in with them the more the people would believe that she sided with the Whitecloaks, forcing her agree to their terms.

Point of view: Morgays Trakand.

Queen Morgays is riding out with ladies from where she was held in Amador by the Whitecloaks assigned to watch her by Pedron Niall. Morgays ends their hawking for the day and rides slowly back to the palace in Amador. Niall recently informed her that Galaad has joined the Whitecloaks. On the way back to the palace, Morgays sees hollow-cheeked refugees. She vows to make the Dragon Reborn pay if he is letting her own people become as bedraggled as this.

Marande, one of her noble attendants who likes to try to aggravate Morgays by repeating gossip that should make her unhappy, inadvertently lets her know good news. Morgays doesn't let on, but the news means the nobles that supported her have not moved to support the Dragon Reborn.





Chapter 10. A Saying in the Borderlands.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is in Kaymlin. Two Eyes Sedai arrived in Kaymlin the previous night. He spots Aviendha looking at one of the fountains in a garden. Rand knows that he really likes her and she ties him in knots, but he's not sure if he loves her. Rand decides to visit the Eyes Sedai at the inn. Some of the Eye’eel clan chiefs joke with him wryly that a man sometimes has to confront a women that he had feelings for instead of trying to hide from his feelings.

Rand and an Eye’eel escort go through the inner city to the outer city to see the newly arrived Eyes Sedai. When he enters the inn he finds that the Eyes Sedai are with many girls from the Two Rivers, even Mat's sister Bode. The girls tell him that they are going to Tar Vawlyn to become Eyes Sedai. They tell Rand how Lord Pairin defeated the Trollocs that attacked. Verin and Alanna enter the inn followed by their Warders. Rand goes to a room to talk to the two Eyes Sedai privately to find out their plans and what they know of the rebel Eyes Sedai. Under the ruse of restoring his strength, Alanna bonds Rand as her Warder. Rand is furious and immediately cuts both of them off from the True Source. The Two Rivers girls don't believe Rand is the Dragon Reborn. Still angry with Alanna, he demonstrates by using the Power to lift two of the girls in the air, which upsets all of the girls. Alanna is able to calm him down somewhat.





Chapter 11. Lessons and Teachers.



Point of view: Verin Mathwin.

Verin ponders whether the coming of the Dragon Reborn is going to upset the plans she has been making for seventy years. The Two Rivers girls under her care are still upset from the way Rand behaved. Alanna finally uses a threatening illusion to chase them all to their rooms. The Eyes Sedai are also concerned about the amnesty for men channeling that Rand has declared. They decide to see if they can do something to stop a lot of men channeling being loosed on the world.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand rides his horse back to the palace, outdistancing his Eye’eel guardians. He just wants to get far away from Alanna, whom he can still feel in his head. At the palace he Travels to the Farm to get farther away, but it is not far enough―he can still feel Alanna. Only seven men from the initial recruits are able to channel and are being trained by Taim. Rand arranged for the students to also receive sword training, but Taim sent the old soldier away. Rand warns Taim to stay away from the Eyes Sedai in Kaymlin and keep the students away also. Taim wants to start recruiting instead of just waiting for men to come to Kaymlin to find out if they can channel. Rand gives permission so that they can increases the number of male channelers as fast as possible.





Chapter 12. Questions and Answers.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev and Elayne are trying to eavesdrop on the Salidar Hall of the Tower. They want to know what Elaida's demands are for fixing the split in the White Tower and if those demands affect them or Rand adversely. Moghedien is telling them there is a way to get through the ward against eavesdropping, but they are not having any success. Moghedien's attitude towards Nine'eev has become more controlled and forward which makes Nine'eev concerned over what has changed. The whole village is tense and rife with rumors while waiting to see what the Eyes Sedai decide.

Nine'eev asks Birgitte if she can acquire some horses in case they need to leave in a hurry without permission. Birgitte would like to have Uno come also, but Nine'eev doesn't want to ask for his help. She then asks Birgitte to listen at a window to the Hall of the Tower but Birgitte absolutely refuses. She was caught in a prior life eavesdropping on Eyes Sedai and still remembers the lesson she was given. Nicola arrives to remind Nine'eev of her copying chores. As Nine'eev heads to the meeting she thinks of all the things that could go wrong, which upsets her stomach.

Delana and Janya are waiting for Nine'eev but instead of copying, they ask her questions about Rand. Next she has to meet with Theodrin who is attempting to break the block that keeps Nine'eev from channeling consistently. On the way she goes to the back of the inn where the Salidar Hall is meeting to try to eavesdrop without using the Power. She catches the tail-end of a conversation between Tarna and the Salidar Six telling Tarna that the Hall has decided it needs more time before accepting Elaida's terms. After Tarna leaves, the Salidar Six mention that they are tired of waiting for the "biddable child" but Nine'eev has no idea who they mean. Theodrin finds Nine'eev just as she's stepping away from the window. An unidentified woman watches Nine'eev and Nicola from a second-story window.



Unanswered Questions[]


Who was the woman in the second story window and why was she watching Nine'eev?




Chapter 13. Under the Dust.



Plot 


Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev has been taking a lesson from Theodrin Dabei, who is attempting to remove her block. Theodrin tried to shock Nine'eev into channeling by drenching her with ice water, but Nine'eev just hit her in the face. Nine'eev thinks that they might as well leave her block alone; Theodrin ignores her and begins droning novice exercises. Theodrin's final instruction as Nine'eev leaves the lesson is not to sleep that night.

Several hours later, Nine'eev returns to her room. Elayne Trakand is waiting there for her and starts to complain about her day. Nine'eev tells her that she has eavesdropped on the Salidar Six and that their message to Elaida is that they need more time. Nine'eev thinks that the two should run away to Kaymlin, so they will not be handed over to Elaida. Elayne disagrees, and as the two argue, Tarna Feir, Elaida's ambassador, suddenly sweeps in.

Tarna attempts to persuade the two to return with her to the White Tower and dismisses Elayne when she refuses. Then, Tarna induces Nine'eev to talk about Rand, although Nine'eev just feeds her false information. After a long moment, Tarna departs, still encouraging Nine'eev to join her.

Elayne returns to the room with the two twisted stone ring ter'angreal. She plans to use Need in Tel'aran'rhiod to find something that will convince the Salidar Eyes Sedai to join with Rand. Nine'eev agrees and that night they enter Tel'aran'rhiod. The search first brings them to the White Tower, where Elayne sees Igwayne briefly. Igwayne disappears immediately. They adjust their Need to exclude Tar Vawlyn and then the search brings them to a dusty storeroom where they find a ter'angreal that looks like a shallow bowl with clouds. Elayne identifies the city as Ebou Dar, and the two agree to journey there as soon as possible. Elayne goes back to sleep, but Nine'eev, remembering Theodrin's order, stays awake, pacing.



Unanswered Questions[]


What was the item in the White Tower that their Need took them to?




Chapter 14. Dreams and Nightmares.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne fled to a formless area of tel'aran'rhiod when she encountered Nine'eev and Elayne, where what appear to be stars really represent the dreams of everyone that is asleep. She is still driven to learn everything she can―even though it means trying things and going places that she shouldn't. She is frustrated because she wants to get information from the White Tower, but keeps running into dreamers she doesn't know who are using ter'angreal to enter the dream. One of the dream lights begins to approach her, then rushes in even though she tries to avoid it.

She finds herself in Gawyn's dream where he is rescuing her from Rand. She tries to leave the dream, but her efforts fail. Despite herself she begins to accept the dream and becomes part of it. Gawyn begins to profess his love for her in flowery terms. Finally she tells him she loves him also and gives in completely to his dream.

Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev is trying to stay awake per Theodrin's orders, trying to see if this will help remove her block on channeling. A scream in the distance followed by furniture in her room moving shows a bubble of evil has hit Salidar. Inanimate objects appear to be alive and intent on injury to everyone around. They come across Anaiya and she has Nine'eev, Elayne and several other novices and accepted link because she believes this is an attack by one of the Forsaken. Fortunately, Elayne has the foresight to remove the a'dam before linking. Nicola has a foretelling relating to the Last Battle but Anaiya doesn't seem to recognize it as such. The linked group begins to move through Salidar, trying to deal with the various inanimate objects that have taken on a semblance of destructive life.

When all the objects have been dealt with Anaiya breaks the link and sends many of her party off to bed. Nine'eev again says that it was a bubble of evil, not a Forsaken but is sent off to bed. Elayne is tasked with helping Heal those injured.





Chapter 15. A Pile of Sand.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne is still recovering from the attack on her by Lanfear, when Mworane and Lanfear fought and both died. When she looks in the mirror she is blushing as she remembers the dream she shared with Gawyn and what happened there. She decides to sleep a bit longer to recover from being in Tel'aran'rhiod all night. She has some dreams:



Igwayne cupping Gawyn's face in her hands.
Twice she dreamed of turning him around against his will. The first time he pushed her hands away. The second time she was stronger and forced him around.
In another Gawyn was closing a door and she knew that if he closed it all the way she would die.
Pairin with a wolf at his feet, and a falcon and a hawk on his shoulders glaring at each other, while he tries to throw away his axe.
Pairin turning away from a Tinker and running from him.
Mat speaking the Old Tongue while two ravens land on his shoulder, sinking in their claws.
A woman beckons Mat toward great danger but her face is shrouded.
Elayne forcing Rand to his knees.
Elayne, Min, and Aviendha in a circle around Rand, then each laying a hand on him.
Rand walking toward a burning mountain while something crunched beneath his boots―the Seals on the Dark One's prison.


Cowinde wakes her and she decides to skip breakfast until Amys wonders what is wrong with her to not be hungry. She then decides she needs to make the Wise Ones believe her to be healed, so she eats. Melaine becomes irritated with Cowinde, who should have put off the white by now, and sends her to perform a useless task looking for a red grain of sand in a pile of sand near her tent. The Wise Ones discuss Igwayne's health and when she will have permission to return to Tel'aran'rhiod. The Salidar Eyes Sedai are very insistent that Igwayne come to the next meeting. After asking the Wise Ones some questions, Igwayne mostly resolves to avoid Gawyn's dreams in the future.

Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

A large crowd waits outside the Little Tower to hear the results of the negotiations between the Salidar Hall and the White Tower representative, Tarna Feir. Elayne is very tired, having stayed awake most of the night dealing with the aftermath of the bubble of evil. Nine'eev joins her, even more tired since she did not go to bed at all trying to comply with Theodrin's orders to stay awake all night to see if that breaks her block on channeling. Sewan joins them, with everyone impatient for the announcement. In the end, nothing has changed. Salidar will not return to the White Tower while Elaida is the Amyrlin.

Nine'eev goes to speak to Sheriam, with Elayne following. They ask to speak privately with Sheriam, Morvrin, and Carlinya. Nine'eev tells them of the ter'angreal they found in Tel'aran'rhiod last night and that it may be able to affect the weather. Nine'eev and Elayne wish to go to Ebou Dar to find it but the Eyes Sedai won't let Accepted make the trip. They decide to send a letter to Merilille, an Eyes Sedai in Ebou Dar, instead. To try to bring the Salidar Eyes Sedai together with Rand, Elayne tells them the bowl will need a man channeling to work. Nine'eev then berates the Eyes Sedai for not doing anything proactive and gets a punishment for her outburst.

Point of view: Sheriam Bayanar.

Sheriam, Carlinya, and Morvrin are watching Elayne and Nine'eev at their chores through the fence. They have plans for the criticisms that were made, but can't make them public yet. They still don't know how they should handle Rand, though.





Chapter 16. Tellings of the Wheel.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is finally learning how to ignore heat and cold while listening to Halwin Norry drone on about the financial status of Andor. Rand dismisses Halwin so that he can meet with the Andoran nobles Die’lin, Luan, Abelle, and Ellorien to try to get their support for Elayne to take the Lion Throne. After some discussion Rand does not get any commitment from the nobles but they do look at him a bit strangely. After the meeting Rand asks Die’lin about the strange looks. She says it is because he looks like Tigraine, the Daughter-heir that disappeared from the palace twenty-five years ago. Rand pieces together that Tigraine must have gone to the Eye’eel Waste and become Shaiel, his mother. It was suspected that the Eyes Sedai Gitara Moroso was involved in the disappearance of Tigraine and of her brother Luc a year earlier. Tigraine had been married to Taringail, a political marriage intended to end the wars between Andor and Kai'rienne. Her disappearance drove King Laman mad with suspicion, so he cut down Avendoraldera and made himself a throne out of it, prompting the Eye’eel War, which led to Rand's birth, to Shaiel, on the slopes of Dragonmount.

Bashere brings in an emissary from "Lord Brend", actually Sammael in Illian. After introductions, the emissary's voice changes and the true message from Sammael is given, a request for a truce between them until the Last Battle. Rand rejects the offer of a truce and promises to call Sammael to account for all to deaths and misery he has caused. His rejection of the truce offer causes the emissary to die a bloody death. Rand announces his intention to go to Kai'rienne. Aviendha arrives and demands to go along, too.





Chapter 17. The Wheel of a Life.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand opens a Gateway to a room in Kai'rienne and goes through following his escort of Eye’eel. Rand heads in to the palace to meet with Berelain and Rhuarc, the two he has left in charge while he has been gone. Berelain is in charge of the city with Rhuarc as her adviser. Rand wishes to see Igwayne but isn't sure if the Wise Ones will allow it while she is still recovering from being attacked by Lanfear. They come to a courtyard where a number of Cairhienin women are practicing sword fighting. They are also practicing a bastardized version of Ji'e'toh. This greatly offends the Eye’eel for multiple reasons but Rand doesn't see it as an issue.

Rand dismisses most of his guard since there are too many for moving about the palace. They discuss the rebels in the foothills of the Spine of the World and the Shaido that appear to be settling in to stay. Rhuarc reports that there is fighting in Shara, something that hasn't happened since the Trolloc Wars. It started after they learned of the coming of the Dragon Reborn. Rand has established a school to develop new things which has shown mixed results to far. A Sea Folk ship is docked at the city. Mangin arrives to tell Rand he violated the rules against killing Cairhienin and so should be hanged, which Rand is obliged to enforce.





Chapter 18. A Taste of Solitude.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand decides that Mangin will hang tomorrow, then heads off to see the school he set up in Kai'rienne. He is met by Idrien Tarsin who heads the school, and many of the students and researchers. Idrien leads him on a tour, showcasing many of the inventions and research produced by the school so far, including a way to make finer paper, a better printing press, a wheeled plow capable of making six furrows at a time, a hay harvester, a loom that was easier to use, viaducts, a new sewer system, a new way to pave roads, a telescope (made by Kin Tovere), something for collecting and burning methane from cow dung, the beginnings of a hot air balloon or glider (made by Maryl Harke), and an attempt at a steam engine (made by Mervin Poel). After the review and a speech, Rand seeks out Herid Fel, a historian and philosopher. Fel rambles on about the Wheel of Time and how the battle with the Dark One must go in cycles as the Wheel turns. Rand hopes to get some insight as to how to fight the Last Battle or escape Alanna's Bond, but doesn't appear to get anything this trip.

Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne is wandering the palace in Kai'rienne, disgruntled because she couldn't talk to Aviendha before Amys and the other Wise Ones. Sorilea sees her and questions her purpose, which is to find Rand. Eventually, she leads Igwayne to where Rand will come after his visit to the school. Niella, a gai'shain and Aviendha's sister, is tidying up Rand's room. Igwayne questions her, but gets no useful information. Rand arrives and Igwayne asks his help with the Wise Ones. Igwayne wants to return to Tel'aran'rhiod as soon as possible. He asks her where Elayne and Nine'eev are and his tahveeren nature almost makes Igwayne give away what she promised to keep secret. He refuses to help her since she won't help him.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is disappointed that Igwayne is acting more like an Eyes Sedai than like a friend trying to help him. He has meetings to arrange with the nobles, the Wise Ones and the clan chiefs and he is very tired.

Point of view: Sulin.

Sulin is upset that Rand will only allow two Eye’eel to guard him in the palace. Instead, they are communicating whenever he moves around so they can keep watch out of his sight. This is a challenge for Sulin, but she is determined to not fail at it.





Chapter 19. Matters of Toh.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand dreams of sho-wings and jo-cars. When he wakes he realizes that it was Lews Therin's dreams, which is the first time that has happened to him. As he leaves his sleeping chamber, he encounters a large crowd which includes Aviendha and a Wise One delegation. Various nobles are also waiting. Rand is about to leave for Kaymlin when Berelain reminds him his orders for Mangin to hang today are ready to be carried out. He announces that he does not intend to watch each murderer hang and heads to the Traveling room with the crowd following in his wake.

Back in Kaymlin Rand decides that two Eye’eel guards are enough. Aviendha goes with him to his room where they talk for a while. She tells him that the Wise Ones have been having Dreams about him:



Rand on a boat with three women whose faces they could not see, and a scale teetering back and forth 
A man standing by Rand's side with a dagger to his throat, but Rand doesn't see him
Rand cutting the wetlands in two with a sword
Rain that comes from a bowl, but there are snares and pitfalls around it. If the right hands pick up the bowl, they will find a treasure perhaps as great as the bowl. But if the wrong hands pick it up, the world is doomed. The key to finding the bowl is to find the one who is no longer.


Rand is sure the second Dream is a Gray Man and he thinks the the third means the turmoil he has caused in the wetlands. Aviendha is not so sure. Eventually she leaves.

Point of view: Aviendha.

Outside Rand's room Aviendha remembers the obligation, toh, she has because of the time she Traveled to Shawn'chin. She has toh to Rand because he saved her life. She has toh to Elayne because she slept with Rand. To fulfill her toh to Elayne, she must kill Rand. To fulfill her toh to Rand, she must kill herself. They are mutually incompatible.





Chapter 20. From the Stedding.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

A servant arrives in the throne room to tell Rand that three Ogier have arrived. Rand asks to be led to where they are getting refreshments. The Ogier are Haman son of Dal son of Morel, Covril daughter of Ella daughter of Soong, and Erith daughter of Iva daughter of Alar. Covril is looking for her son, Loial, and plans to marry him right away to Erith to settle his wanderlust. He has been outside the stedding for five years and the Longing will soon overtake him and possibly kill him. Rand admits that Loial is in the Two Rivers, a nice safe, quiet place. Rand asks Haman to identify all the locations of Waygates. He tried visiting Stedding Tsofu, but Elder Alar would not listen to a human. Rand wants to have all the Waygates guarded because Shadowspawn are using the Ways. Rand wonders why the Forsaken don't send Trollocs pouring through Gateways.

Haman reluctantly agrees and Rand sends Sulin to bring him every map in the palace. As Elder Haman begins marking the maps, he is amazed that humans do not remember the vanished cities of Mafal Dadaranell, Ancohima, or Londaren Cor. Some of the older maps show vanished nations



Hardan was north of Kai'rienne
Maredo was between Tear and Illian
Caralain was north of Andor
Almoth was between Arad Doman and Tarabon
Mosara and Irenvelle were nations that arose after the War of the Hundred Years and were later absorbed into other nations


Elder Haman begins by marking the occupied stedding where there are Waygates



seven in the Borderlands
thirteen in the Spine of the World, including
one in Kinslayer's Dagger
Stedding Shangtai in the south
Stedding Qichen and Stedding Sanshen in the north, only a few miles apart from each other
Stedding Cantoine is just above the River Iralell not far north of Haddon Mirk
only four between the Dragonwall and the River Erinin, including Stedding Tsofu, which was only repopulated six hundred years ago
six in the Mountains of Mist
two in the Shadow Coast
three in the Black Hills
four in the forests above the River Ivo
two in the mountains above the River Dhagon


Then Elder Haman marks stedding that are abandoned (because their Ogier populations dwindled) or that were never reclaimed (because they were too close to human habitations)



at least one in the Spine of the World
at least one in the Mountains of Mist
at least one in the Shadow Coast
one on Almoth Plain near the Paerish Swar
one on the north coast of Toman Head
Stedding Sherandu and Stedding Chandar inside the Blight


Rand reminds Elder Haman that there is also an empty stedding somewhere east of the River Arinelle and north of the road between Whitebridge and Kaymlin.

Haman then lists Ogier-built cities with Waygates



Existing cities
Kaymlin
Tar Vawlyn
Tear
Illian
Kai'rienne
Maradon
Ebou Dar (marked as Barashta)
Vanished cities
Mafal Dadaranell
Ancohima
Londaren Cor
Manetheren
Aren Mador
Aridhol
Shaemal
Deranbar
Braem
Condaris
Hai Ecorimon
Iman


The name Aridhol tickles Rand's memory until he remembers that it is now called Shadar Logoth. Rand asks the Ogier to show him the location of the Waygate in Shadar Logoth since that one needs to be dealt with urgently.





Chapter 21. To Shadar Logoth.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Initially the Ogier, Elder Haman, Covril, and Erith are hesitant to go to Shadar Logoth to find the Waygate there for Rand. Elder Haman doesn't want to go because it is a dangerous place. Covril and Erith are opposed because it would be a detour on the way to the Two Rivers but when Rand offers to Travel by Gateway, the women favor the idea even though Haman is still opposed. Rand is about to go through when Sulin comes up, believing the Eye’eel should be going with him. Rand relents and gives her to the count of fifty to gather a guard. She says something to the gai'shain that startles them but they immediately run to gather a guard. When they are assembled, Rand warns them to follow his directions―they must stay close, not enter any buildings, nor take anything not even a drink.

Rand lets Haman lead once they are in the city. When they find the Waygate, Rand uses all five powers to weave deadly traps around the Waygate, focusing particularly on Shadowspawn. Rand is about to make a Gateway to the Two Rivers when he discovers that Liah is missing. A long and fruitless search in pairs begins. Rand repeatedly refuses requests to search by ones or to enter the buildings. Finally night comes close and they have to leave. Rand does not want to leave a Maiden behind, but finally has no choice. They will all die if they stay past dusk. Rand makes a Gateway to an empty field near Emmond's Field, only it is no longer empty. Sheep and a farmhouse along with a boy shepherd are there to notice his arrival. Elder Haman begs Rand not to get himself killed before the Last Battle. Rand asks the Ogier to not reveal how they came there. Then he opens a Gateway to Kaymlin.





Chapter 22. Heading South.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat and the Band are heading south to meet up with other forces arrayed to invade Illian. It has been eleven days since they left Maerone and they are just over half way. Chel Vanin returns from scouting and insists Mat see something he found. A Tinker caravan was attacked and everyone killed. One of the Tinkers used his own blood to write on one of the wagons, "TELL THE DRAGON REBORN," but nothing indicated what he was to be told. Mat has the wagon burned to avoid rumors and arranges for the bodies to be buried.

Mat has trouble getting to sleep inside his tent so he heads outside to lay in the grass for a while. He hears a sound and looks back toward his tent and sees a group of Eye’eel setting up to attack the tent. Mat calls out to rouse the camp but the Eye’eel attack him and he makes a desperate defense until his troops come to his aid. The Eye’eel attackers are defeated but at a high cost. Mat decrees that from now on the Band will be digging a ditch with a log palisade every night to protect the camp―even if the men grumble about the extra work. When Mat inspects his tent and the area he finds that a Gateway was used to bring the Eye’eel, meaning one of the Forsaken was involved.

Mat hears footsteps and nearly attacks Olver before recognizing him. Mat thought Olver was supposed to be left in Maerone, but now he appears to be a camp mascot. Olver shows Mat his Snakes and Foxes board. Mat hires him to be his messenger.





Chapter 23. To Understand a Message.



Point of view: Graendal.

Graendal visits Sammael's rooms in Illian and is amazed at the items he has found from the Age of Legends. He hints that he has found something powerful, which Graendal suspects means he has an angreal or sa'angreal. Sammael claims he now has a truce with Rand. Sammael wants to know where the other Forsaken are. Graendal states that Asmodean and Lanfear are dead and Moghedien probably is, too. Mesaana is in the White Tower. Graendal does not know where any of the others are. Sammael hints that the Great Lord has promised him the position of Nae’bliss and tells Graendal to find where the others are so he can point Rand at them.

Point of view: Sammael.

Sammael plans to do whatever he must to survive and become Nae’bliss and defeat Rand in the Last Battle.





Chapter 24. An Embassy.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne is walking around in Kai'rienne, which she views as much better than walking around outside the walls. She is thinking about how she will be able to return to Tel'aran'rhiod soon, not for the next meeting in three days, but shortly after that. She listens to gossip as she walks and suddenly realizes that there must be White Tower eyes-and-ears around and they might be looking for her. She almost panics but then realizes that dressed as an Eye’eel Wise One, no one is going to notice her as the Accepted Igwayne al'Veer.

She intervenes in an altercation and as that gets resolved she notices a mounted party, with women wearing the Flame of Tar Vawlyn on their cloaks. She runs back to the Eye’eel tents to inform the Wise Ones and finds Berelain visiting with Amys, Bair, and Sorilea. For some reason the Wise Ones are very fond of Berelain, but Igwayne can't ask why without incurring toh. Igwayne asks Berelain to keep her presence a secret from the White Tower Eyes Sedai.





Chapter 25. Like Lightning and Rain.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Amys, Sorilea, and the other Wise Ones discuss the White Tower Eyes Sedai with Igwayne. Igwayne gives what information she can, but she hasn't really spent much time in the Tower. Sorilea sends Aeron, Colinda, and Edarra to the royal library after learning that Nesune Bihara plans to use it to investigate the Seals. The Eyes Sedai refused to stay in the palace, instead staying at a noble's house in the city. After the discussion, Igwayne heads into the city, avoiding notice by any Wise Ones. She heads to Lady Arilyn Dhulaine's palace, where the Eyes Sedai are staying to see if she can find out anything about them or their intentions. At least one of the Eyes Sedai is channeling continuously. She channels to try to eavesdrop but only catches fragments of conversation―and that mostly from the maids.

Nesune Bihara leaves the house with her warder and begins looking around. Igwayne decides she better leave quickly to avoid being caught. As she begins to run away, she bumps right into Gawyn. After some awkwardness they head to an inn where they can speak privately. Gawyn rages against Rand but Igwayne tries to cool him down by letting him know that Elayne is safe and that Rand wouldn't have killed his mother. Gawyn admits to wanting to be her warder and Igwayne tells him he will be, realizing one of the dreams she had is a true dream. They begin kissing and expressing their love for each other. Igwayne asks Gawyn to not let the Eyes Sedai know of her presence and he agrees. She checks the manor house before returning to the Eye’eel camp and the Eyes Sedai are still channeling continuously.

Point of view: Katerine Alruddin.

Katerine is telling Lady Colavaere that they will escort Rand to Tar Vawlyn, leaving a vacuum in the leadership of the city―a vacuum Colavaere might be expected to fill.

Point of view: Nesune Bihara.

Nesune is telling High Lord Meilan that they will escort Rand to Tar Vawlyn, leaving a vacuum in the leadership of the city―a vacuum Meilan might be expected to fill.

Point of view: Sarene Nemdahl.

Sarene and some other Eyes Sedai are discussing rumors of a Green Eyes Sedai that may be helping Rand. Some of them do not believe Mworane is dead. If Rand doesn't go to the Tower with them, they have a backup plan that relates to channeling all the time. There are other Eyes Sedai (Beldeine and Mayam) arriving in the city secretly.





Chapter 26. Connecting Lines.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand watches the Saldaean horsemen practice precision maneuvers while fretting over sensing Alanna through the bond she created. Rand and his Eye’eel guards return to Kaymlin. As he passes through the streets, he sees a crossbowman rise up to shoot at him. Rand blocks his bolt with a wall of air and channels a ball of flame at him. Desora knocks him off his horse and takes a crossbow bolt meant for him, shot by another ambusher. The ambushers were all Whitecloaks in dirty uniforms. Four were captured, the rest were killed by the Eye’eel. Rand al'Thor wants to use Balefire on the Whitecloaks, but Lews Therin Telamon keeps saying 'no' in Rand's head. Rand orders one Whitecloak to return to Pedron Niall with a warning, while ordering the other Whitecloaks to be hanged. After memorizing the face of Desora and reminiscing on other maidens who have died recently (Liah, Dailin, Lamelle), and another woman incidentally killed, Rand races back to the Palace, leaving his Eye’eel guard behind.

Back at the palace, Reene Harfor brings word that a Wavemistress from the Sea Folk would like an audience, which he schedules for the afternoon. Rand has Elenia Sarand brought to his room so he can have her teach him some of Andor's history. Rand finally gets her to answer what he really wants to know: as the son of Tigraine, how close is his relationship to Elayne? The answer is they are not closely related at all, which is a great relief to him. After Elenia leaves, he decides to head to Kai'rienne again, forgetting his meeting with the Sea Folk.





Chapter 27. Gifts.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne and Gawyn met on the streets and traveled to an inn called The Long Man, where they could talk, hold hands, and kiss. Igwayne is overjoyed on her way back to the Eye’eel tents. Gawyn warns her that the Eyes Sedai are looking for a channeler, if not Igwayne by name. Rand has returned to Kai'rienne and will meet the Eyes Sedai that afternoon. Igwayne would like to talk to Elayne or Nine'eev, but she had a Dream that every time she tried to talk to them something bad happened. Igwayne heads in to the city to do what she can to aid Rand.

Igwayne warns him that the Eyes Sedai are dangerous to him and that he should be careful. She tries to use reverse psychology on him by demanding that he be humble. To her consternation, Rand consents. The Eyes Sedai arrive before Igwayne can leave and she worries about how to avoid them. Rand uses siedeen to make Igwayne invisible, as long as she doesn't move around. Rand lets the three Eyes Sedai enter his chamber: Coiren, Nesune, and Galina.

A dozen women bring in two chests filled with treasure as a gift to Rand. Rand jumps down to inspect the other women to make sure they're not able to channel. Satisfied that they are not Eyes Sedai in disguise, Rand insists that the three Eyes Sedai release saidar. They do nothing and Rand reiterates his demand. They release saidar and Rand thanks them for their compliance. The Eyes Sedai invite Rand to return with them to the White Tower and receive Elaida's protection and influence with other nations. Rand seems to promise to go to the Tower with them, but not until he finishes up some other business here and in Andor. They offer to leave an adviser to replace Mworane, but he declines. As they are leaving, he asks, "How is Alviarin?" Without thinking, Galina replies that Alviarin is well. After they are gone, Rand tells Igwayne that they will eventually bow to him in fulfillment of the Karaethon Cycle. He also tells her that Galina must be part of Aliviarin's faction in the White Tower.

Igwayne asks Rand how he Travels. He tells her that he brings the two locations together and bores a hole. Igwayne says the thinks that to do it with saidar she should make the two places the same.

Point of view: Nesune Bihara.

The Eyes Sedai are reluctant to discuss the meeting with Rand, since it didn't go as expected at all. Nesune noticed the presence of a woman that could channel, but the others did not. They speculate on whether it was Mworane, the mysterious Green sister they've been hearing rumors about, or an Eye’eel Wise One. Nesune plans to write a paper about Rand that will be her magnum opus.





Chapter 28. Letters.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand worries that Lews Therin has been silent in his head recently. He resolves to quit running from problems that confront him, like his feelings for Aviendha. He decides to return to Andor and receives a letter from the Sea Folk just before he leaves. When he arrives, Aviendha says he must allow her to go with him when he Travels and gets the Maidens guarding him to agree.

Reene Harfor arrives to announce a number of nobles that have entered Kaymlin, but not come to the palace. Another letter from the Sea Folk is waiting for him. He opens both letters to find that Zaida is displeased he missed the meeting he scheduled in Kaymlin and Harine will receive him on her ship in Kai'rienne. Another letter has arrived and it is delivered by Sulin, wearing a servant's dress. Rand asks her what the servant business is about but she won't answer. The letter is from Alliandre, the Queen of Ghealdan, pledging her support, but not publicly, to avoid Eyes Sedai censure.

A Gray Man enters the room. Even though Rand saw the door open and close, he didn't noticed the man until he smelled the stench he gives off. Once Rand became aware, he was able to focus on the Gray Man and bind him. As Rand captures him, a bar of fire eliminates the Gray Man, channeled by Taim. Taim had just arrived by Gateway to let Rand know a male channeler, born with the spark in him, has arrived at the Farm. Rand is furious that Taim has not only killed the Gray Man but that he used a Gateway to enter his bedroom. Taim explains he arrived to tell Rand that a man who was born with the spark has arrived at the farm and he killed the Gray Many without thinking. Lews Therin almost takes control of siedeen from Rand, in an attempt to kill Taim.

Point of view: Padan Fain.

Fain is handling his dagger from Shadar Logoth, while thinking about Rand. He has a Myrddraal under his control in the room with him. Somehow he can sense the bond Rand has with Alanna, but he doesn't know what it is or what it means. Fain's contamination has brushed Pedron Niall and Elaida, ensuring that the Whitecloaks and the Tower Eyes Sedai will never trust Rand. Fain set the ambush with the Whitecloaks he commands, but now he has only a few left. The Darkfriend Fain is staying with comes into the room with her son. The boy excitedly tells Fain that Rand was attacked that morning by someone the maidens didn't see, but the man was dead. Fain realizes it was a Gray Man and rages against the Forsaken,  knowing it was one of them who sent the creature. Fain turns his anger onto the boy, using his power to harm the child and then he assaults the woman.



Unanswered Questions[]


Why can Fain sense the bond between Rand and Alanna?




Chapter 29. Fire and Spirit.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev is sweating before going in to the Little Tower, due to the heat, but also her weather sense says a severe storm should be overhead. She is only on the eleventh day of her forty day punishment for being disrespectful to the Eyes Sedai. She is looking for Sewan and Lee’ahnna so she can see if she can heal stilling by examining them, but they are busy with some of the Sitters. Brendas asks about yesterday's session with Theodrin, which did not make any progress on breaking Nine'eev's block on channeling. It did get her drunk, though.

Back outside, Thom is finally back from his scouting mission along with Jeweleen. Elayne arrives to give Thom a hug of welcome. After being pressed by Elayne, Thom shares a rumor he heard that has her mother Morgays as a guest of the Whitecloaks, which Elayne considers completely ridiculous. After Thom and Jeweleen go back in the Little Tower to report, Nine'eev decides the only thing she can do is examine Logain, again. She gathers her anger enough to be able to channel. With Elayne watching she channels saidar into him and notices that he is healthy except for a hole. She channels Fire and Spirit into the hole where she finds a cut and Logain's eyes widen, suddenly. Nine'eev realizes that she has Healed Logain of gentling. She shields Logain immediately and tells Elayne to go find Sheriam―and only Sheriam―as quickly as possible.





Chapter 30. To Heal Again.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev shields, binds, and gags Logain while berating herself for being so careless and Healing him. He is almost too strong for her. Elayne rushes off to get help. After a while the door opens, and a flood of Sisters and Sitters enter the room, staring pointedly at her and the weaves she has woven until she loses her anger and loses saidar altogether.

Romanda Cassin then appoints six sisters to hold the shield on Logain. Sheriam and Myrelle then set about trying to get Nine'eev angry enough to channel again by first believing and then not believing that Nine'eev has done what she claims. They succeed, and Nine'eev gets so angry, she almost walks up to the assemblage of Sisters and slaps them.

Finally, Sewan and Lee’ahnna are hustled in. Then Nine'eev channels and Heals them. Expecting praise, she only hears criticism. When Carlinya points out that they cannot again gentle Logain, she receives many murderous glances. Sheriam tells Nine'eev to leave, and she does so.

Outside, Nine'eev is cornered by many Yellow Ajah Sisters who want to see her redo the weaves over and over. Nine'eev shoots Elayne a frightened look, but Elayne can't do anything, and only shrugs. Then Nine'eev is hustled off.



Point of view: Sewan Sawnchay.


Sewan resists the temptation to embrace saidar and hold it, while accepting her friends congratulations on the restoration of her ability to channel. Seeing Gareth Bryne, she rushes up to tell him that she has been Healed. He seems unimpressed. Sewan tries to lift him to drive the point home that she cannot be his servant anymore, but she fails and realizes that she is much weaker than before.

When Gareth leaves, she starts to weep over the loss of her dead warder, Alric, and then sees Lee’ahnna standing nearby, looking at her sympathetically. Lee’ahnna describes her experience when her warder, Anjen, died. The two of them then discuss their renewed status and their unusual weakness in the One Power. After that, the two of them go to do battle with the Hall of the Tower to see if they can be Amyrlin and Keeper again.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne Trakand sits on her bed when the door bangs open, revealing a distraught and furious Nine'eev al'Meera, who has just gone through several efforts to make her angry enough to channel and demonstrate the weave for Healing stilling. Nine'eev starts ranting about the worst ever Yellow sisters. She also mentions that she only had a roll for dinner.

Then Sewan and Lee’ahnna come in with a big bowl of soup. They sit down and have a discussion with Elayne and Nine'eev. They also mention that they want Nine'eev to try Healing them both again, as they are not at full strength, unlike Logain. Nine'eev loses her temper at them, but does not channel―she is too tired to do so anyway. But Lee’ahnna cools down her temper, and the four of them make a pact. During the discussion, Elayne and Nine'eev learn that Eyes Sedai govern themselves most of the time by who is stronger in the Power. Sewan and Lee’ahnna being very weak, now, will have very little influence with other Sisters.

The next day, Sewan and Lee’ahnna wake up Nine'eev, who loses her temper yet again, but she cannot Heal them further―she can't Heal something that has already been Healed.



Point of view: Delana Mosalaine.


The next morning Sewan comes to visit Delana and ask her for help. Sewan is trying to make arrangements so she can use a Dream ter'angreal to meet with the Eye’eel Wise Ones. Delana promises to do what she can by using her influence with the Sitters. Sewan leaves.

A novice arrives and announces a woman to see Delana, Halima Saranov, who is already acquainted with Delana. Delana is about to deny knowing anyone by that name when she receives a signal from Halima. Halima gives a signal identifying her an Eyes Sedai of the Black Ajah, even though she clearly is not able to channel. This angers Delana. When Delana argues against taking orders, Halima mentions she has another name she uses sometimes: Aran'gar. This name frightens Delana because it has been mentioned to her in her dreams.





Chapter 31. Red Wax.



Point of view: Eamon Valda.

Valda is unhappy with the orders that recalled him to Amador from Tar Vawlyn where he sensed weakness in the White Tower that he was planning to exploit. He believes Pedron Niall has not taken the proper direction on handling al'Thor or on many other things. He recognizes Dain Bornhauld, but is disgusted to discover that the man is drunk. A questioner suggests that Valda visit the Dome of Truth where he meets Rhadam Asunawa. They agree to make plans to remove Niall from his position as Lord Captain Commander of the Children of the Light.

Point of view: Pedron Niall.

Niall notices Valda arrive and speak to Bornhauld. He has a feeling that Valda means trouble. Balwer has some reports and a message tube to give to Niall. The message tube talks about Eyes Sedai on leashes in Tarabon. Niall plans to send a messenger to his agent in Tanchico.

Point of view: Morgays Trakand.

Paitr Conel and his uncle have plans for helping Morgays and her party sneak out of Amador. A Questioner, Einor Saren comes to escort Morgays to a meeting with Niall. Saren takes a 'shortcut', different than the way Morgays usually goes. In a courtyard there is a gallows with about fifteen men and women about to be hung. Paitr and his uncle are on the platform. As Morgays watches, the trap doors are opened and all of them fall to their deaths. Paitr's neck doesn't break, so he struggles until he strangles. Saren explains that this was a group of Darkfriends that were caught holding some kind of ritual for the Dark One.

When she arrives at Niall's office she tells him she agrees to a treaty which is already prepared and dictates terms very favorable to the Whitecloaks. Morgays realizes that it could take a long time for Elayne to nullify the terms. As soon as she is done signing the paper and marking it with a copy of her seal, Niall informs her that he won't be able to move against Rand as soon as he'd thought.

Point of view: Rhadam Asunawa.

Asunawa noticed that Morgays reacted to the Darkfriends on the gallows but he never considered questioning if they had dealings with her. He plans a long drawn out trial with a dramatic confession at the end followed by the first execution of a Queen in Whitecloak history.





Chapter 32. Summoned in Haste.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Since the White Tower Eyes Sedai arrived in Kai'rienne and met with Rand, the city is in turmoil―especially the nobles. The Wise Ones are having very frustrating meetings with Rand but Igwayne doesn't know why. Sevanna has been accepted as a Wise One, even though she never received any training nor has she been to Roy'deonne. Igwayne believes Sevanna is only there to spy. Igwayne is just trying to get by while waiting to be allowed back in to Tel'aran'rhiod, which is only a few days away now. She still meets Gawyn at an inn every day.

One day Igwayne decides to visit the Sea Folk ship in the river by the docks. She hopes to learn weather channeling from them. When the Sea Folk recognize that Igwayne can channel, they assume that she is an Eyes Sedai in disguise and cut the boarding ladder and she falls into the river. When she manages to get back on the boat, she shields the Windfinder and dumps several of the women into the river.

Finally the night arrives when she will go with the Wise Ones to meet the Salidar Eyes Sedai in Tel'aran'rhiod. Suddenly she is apprehensive that the Eyes Sedai might reveal that she is only an Accepted to the Wise Ones, when she has been passing herself off as Eyes Sedai for months.

She arrives in the Heart of the Stone where Amys and Bair are waiting for the Eyes Sedai, who are late. Shortly after, seven Eyes Sedai appear―six that she recognizes and one she doesn't (except that she has seen her in Tel'aran'rhiod many times before). The Eyes Sedai speak formally then:



Igwayne al'Veer, you are summoned before the Hall of the Tower.Sheriam
Igwayne al'Veer, you are summoned before the Hall of the Tower.— Sheriam


Ask not why you are summoned, it is yours to answer not to question.Carlinya
Ask not why you are summoned, it is yours to answer not to question.— Carlinya


Delay not in your coming. It is yours to obey in haste.Anaiya
Delay not in your coming. It is yours to obey in haste.— Anaiya


It is well to fear the summons of the Hall. It is well to obey in haste and humility, unasking. You are summoned to kneel before the Hall of the Tower and accept their judgement.All three in unison
It is well to fear the summons of the Hall. It is well to obey in haste and humility, unasking. You are summoned to kneel before the Hall of the Tower and accept their judgement.— All three in unison


She isn't sure what she has done that requires such an urgent summons, but she will face whatever it is. Igwayne replies that she will come, but it may take a long time and she doesn't even know where Salidar is. Sheriam suggests Igwayne enter Tel'aran'rhiod physically to make the journey quickly. Amys and Bair object and say they will not teach her such a thing. Igwayne tells them she believes she knows how and so will come quickly. The unidentified young Blue creates a map to show Igwayne how to reach Salidar. Igwayne is astonished when Sheriam praises the Blue and then calls her, "Sewan".

Igwayne returns to her tent and wakes to begin packing for the trip.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand had come to the Heart of the Stone to look at Callandor but found the meeting between the Eyes Sedai and Wise Ones. More importantly, he now knows where Salidar is, and where he can find Elayne.





Chapter 33. Courage to Strengthen.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne continues her preparations to leave for Salidar, including getting a note sent to Gawyn at the inn where they usually meet. Amys, Bair, and Sorilea enter with disapproving looks for her because of the method she plans to use to Travel. She begins to feel guilty about her lies and admits to going into Tel'aran'rhiod alone when she was not supposed to. Finally she decides to admit that she is really not an Eyes Sedai, but only an Accepted, like a Wise One apprentice. She asks the Wise Ones to help her meet her toh.

Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat is playing Snakes and Foxes with Olver. They are close to winning, but not close enough. They both lose on the next toss of the dice. The game appears to be impossible to win without cheating. Olver starts a new game with the traditional phrase, "Courage to strengthen, fire to blind, music to dazzle, iron to bind." Daerid enters the tent and announces the arrival of the Dragon Reborn. Aviendha is with him and won't leave Rand even when he wants to meet alone with Mat.

Rand instructs Mat that he is being sent to Elayne in Salidar and he is to stay with her until she is on the Lion Throne in Kaymlin. Mat promises to not let Elayne out of his sight until he plunks her down in the Royal Palace. Rand also asks him to help get Igwayne out of whatever trouble she is in, which Mat also promises to do. He gives Mat Mworane's letter to Thom.

Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne is in a tent with the Wise Ones she lied to. They take turns using a belt to help her meet her toh. Igwayne could say it is done anytime, but instead she continues to ask each woman to help her meet her toh. Finally all of the women say that Igwayne has met her toh and it is over. Amys and Bair will continue to meet her in Tel'aran'rhiod periodically to let her know how things are going with Rand. Amys reminds Igwayne that she still has toh to Rhuarc, but he was away from Kai'rienne that evening. She then remembers that Melaine and Aviendha do not know of her lie, so she will have to meet toh with them also. She is concerned that the Eyes Sedai have called her to Salidar because she has been calling herself Eyes Sedai and wish to punish her for that offense. Nevertheless, she continues her preparations for the journey.





Chapter 34. Journey to Salidar.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne is preparing for her journey to join the rebel Eyes Sedai in Salidar. She fills her saddlebags until they are bulging and looks around, realizing that there's a lot here that still belongs to her, but she cannot take. She then realizes that she is stalling. Dressing is a chore because she is so sore from the administration of toh the Wise Ones provided upon her request. She quickly channels Spirit and opens a Gateway to Tel'aran'rhiod. She steps through and finds herself exactly where she thinks she should be, but in the World of Dreams. She finds a "dream-Behla" around the corner of her tent, reshapes the saddle to make it more soft to handle her sore posterior, and climbs on. Then she uses the unique features of Tel'aran'rhiod to make her injuries go away. Then she tells the mare that she needs to "run like the wind" tonight.

Surprising Igwayne, Behla does so; every step seems to take them miles, even though the feel of the canter is like a slow trot. Scenes whisk by in a blur. Igwayne stops occasionally to orient herself according to the map Sewan has placed in her head. Some time later, when she is sure she is well into Altara she lets Behla take smaller leaps, using the slower pace to identify the towns she passed through, finally lapsing into a normal trot. She reaches the outskirts of Salidar at last and applies caution to her final steps, which she makes herself, on the ground, to ensure that she is not a threatening figure upon approach. After thanking Behla, she channels Spirit once again and leaves Tel'aran'rhiod.

Her first step back into the real world reminds her sharply of the toh she received earlier that night―the pain is excruciating, having been held at bay in the World of Dreams. Her conscience tells her to leave it be, and she decides to endure the pain for the sake of her toh. After all she was there to fight for her right to be Eyes Sedai, and yet as she thinks that, a sliver of doubt creeps into her mind―is that really why she is here?

Determined to let the Eyes Sedai know she has arrived, Igwayne corners a townswoman and requests to be told where she can find Sheriam Sedai. She is speaking to a woman named Nildra, who whines a bit then leads Igwayne to Sheriam's cottage. She gets halfway through announcing Igwayne when the door is wrenched open and Igwayne is allowed admittance. The room is filled with seven Eyes Sedai and someone she doesn't know and younger. Intense questioning follows about her experience of traveling through the World of Dreams. Igwayne explains that she is fine and that there were no ill effects.

After a bit of verbal pampering, including a remark from Myrelle to let Igwayne get her feet on the ground, the young Eyes Sedai, who is really Sewan Sawnchay, snaps that Igwayne does not have time to get her feet on the ground. Igwayne hears the voice and knows the woman for Sewan. It is explained to a disbelieving Igwayne that Nine'eev Healed Sewan's stilling. Igwayne realizes finally that it really is Sewan, but a Sewan who is much weaker in the Power than the Sewan she used to know.

Igwayne is offered a seat, but she chooses to stand because of her recent toh, though she does not let the group know that she is hurting. She asks about Elayne, and marvels at what Nine'eev has done. Other pleasantries are exchanged until Sewan harshly demands that they continue what they already began. She is met with cold stares from the other Eyes Sedai present, and for a while she just stares back, but then humbles herself and apologizes.

Igwayne half marvels, half frets over what she is witnessing. But one thing suddenly is made clear: they did not call her to Salidar because she had been masquerading as an Eyes Sedai when she was a mere Accepted. They didn't even know that she had done so.

Finally, Sheriam announces that Igwayne was called to Salidar to be made the next Amyrlin Seat.





Chapter 35. In the Hall of the Sitters.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne has just found out the Salidar Eyes Sedai have decided to make her the Amyrlin Seat. Igwayne notes that she isn't Eyes Sedai, but the sisters say it isn't technically a requirement, that she will be Eyes Sedai by becoming the Amyrlin Seat, but she doesn't have to be Eyes Sedai to become the Amyrlin Seat. She can't understand why they would choose someone so inexperienced and untrained, regardless of her superior strength in the power.

The Sisters begin reviewing the ceremony, having her go over everything again and again even though she remembered it after one time. They then move to the Hall of the Tower, where the eighteen Sitters, three from each of the six Ajahs in Salidar, will decide whether to accept Igwayne as Amyrlin. The Sitters vote by standing in favor of Igwayne or else staying seated. In the first vote only nine sisters stand, but all eighteen must stand in favor for Igwayne to become Amyrlin. Igwayne then performs a service for all the Sitters by washing their feet. On the next vote all of the Sitters stand, but Lelaine and Romanda stand last and apparently reluctantly. Igwayne is formally made the Amyrlin Seat and the Sisters all approach her in her chair and kiss her ring, promising to serve. After the ceremony, Igwayne asks the Eyes Sedai helping her settle in what would have happened if all the Sitters hadn't stood for her and was told most likely she would have been exiled, to keep harmony with the other sisters, and the women that supported her would've been exiled also. 





Chapter 36. The Amyrlin Is Raised.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne wakes as the new Amyrlin and a maid, Chesa, comes to serve her. The night before Sheriam and the other sisters updated her on the status in Salidar, mostly ignoring any questions Igwayne had. Romanda and Lelaine came by, separately of course, to give her suggestions, each different from all the other advice she has received. After breakfast and getting dressed, Igwayne goes downstairs where Sheriam, her other advisers, and all of the Sitters await so they can make the announcement. Igwayne has a speech to give from Sheriam, with suggestions from Lelaine and Romanda, again all different from each other.

She simplifies and shortens the speech to the essentials, then names Sheriam as her Keeper of the Chronicles. She also cancels all punishments, which is traditional. Theodrin, Faolain, Nine'eev, and Elayne are raised to Eyes Sedai by her decree. Objections to raising the four start right away with Sheriam, then continue with Romanda and Lelaine.

Igwayne has Sheriam tell Nine'eev and Elayne to come to her study. Igwayne begins by telling them she still expects them to act as her friends when in private and they agree. They then discuss Rand and his meeting with Elaida's Eyes Sedai in Kaymlin and how they hope Min can assist him when the Salidar convoy arrives. Igwayne asks about all the discoveries they've been making and they talk about Healing Logain and making ter'angreal, but avoid discussing other things they've learned from Moghedien. Elayne describes the ter'angreal they found in Tel'aran'rhiod that may be able to fix the weather. It is in Ebou Dar, though, and they could not get permission to go find it. Igwayne will try to help them, but she is constrained by being newly raised as Amylin and everyone still thinks of her as a Novice. Sheriam's group, Romanda, and Lelaine may be planning to guide her every step, but Igwayne plans to work free of being their puppet as soon as she can.





Chapter 37. When Battle Begins.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Elayne and Nine'eev finally get to the topic they have been avoiding. Nine'eev captured Moghedien and Elayne made an a'dam, which they use to control her. Many of their discoveries have come from interrogating her. Igwayne is still curious about Birgitte, but continues to keep her promise to Elayne that she won't pry without permission.

Igwayne hopes to find more women who can channel, to make an agreement with the Eye’eel Wise Ones, and eventually have all women who can channel associated with the White Tower in some manner. Nine'eev brings "Marigan", the disguised Moghedien to the study. Igwayne puts on the a'dam and begins to assess her. She tells Moghedien she will be executed if she is caught lying. Igwayne then asks if she can Travel by boring a hole through the Pattern. Moghedien says that is how men do it, but a woman would be destroyed if she tried it. Igwayne then asks how it is done. Moghedien says that it is by making both places the same. She is about to show Igwayne how when Igwayne does it by herself (since it was similar to what she'd already done when entering Tel'aran'rhiod in the flesh). The Gateway Igwayne opens leads to the Eye’eel Waste.

Sewan arrives to begin teaching Igwayne the etiquette of being Amyrlin. Igwayne wants to leave Salidar and start moving toward the White Tower and asks Sewan how they can accomplish that.

Point of view: Romanda Cassin.

Romanda is meeting with her strongest supporters, deciding how to keep Sheriam from having too much control over what Igwayne does. She supported Igwayne to make sure Lelaine did not become Amyrlin. Delana should be here also, but is not.

Point of view: Lelaine Akashi.

Lelaine is meeting with her strongest supporters, pondering that she only voted for Igwayne to make sure Romanda did not become Amyrlin. Delana should be here also, but is not.

Point of view: Delana Mosalaine.

Delana is meeting with Halima, receiving instructions to pretend to support each of the factions arising in Salidar. Delana fears that she will be caught out by trying to do this, but Halima is insistent. Halima also wants Logain to be gentled again or executed.

Point of view: Sewan Sawnchay.

Sewan is meeting with Lelaine and beginning the plan she and Igwayne developed. They will play the factions off against one another and choose the course they believe is best. Sewan complains to Lelaine that Romanda is pressuring Igwayne to stay in Salidar instead of marching on Tar Vawlyn.

Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev is meeting with Romanda under the pretense of having Romanda try to break her block on channeling. Romanda has Nine'eev hop on one foot and gossip, particularly about what Igwayne said about Lelaine. Nine'eev tells Romanda that Lelaine is trying to convince Igwayne to stay in Salidar instead of marching on Tar Vawlyn.

Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne gives a new dream ter'angreal ring to Sheriam. She then tells Sheriam that Romanda and Lelaine are recommending staying in Salidar, which Sheriam agrees with. Elayne is worried that if Igwayne follows their advice, they will have a hold on her for the future.

Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne is taking a very welcome bath while pondering the battle she has just begun to become the Amyrlin rather than a figurehead.





Chapter 38. A Sudden Chill.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat and the Band are riding toward Salidar in the burning heat of what should be a fall day. Aviendha is walking beside him as she has all three days of the journey since Rand put them through a Gateway from Kai'rienne. Vanin returns and reports Warders captured two of their scouts and Salidar is only eight to ten miles away. Vanin slipped into the village and figures there are three hundred Eyes Sedai, perhaps more, plus an army twice the size of Mat's off to the north.

Aviendha heads off on her own, so Mat gives command of the Band to Tahlmahness and catches up to her with just a few others of the Band, including the bannermen. To Mat's surprise, Aviendha insists on riding behind him on the horse. She reprimands him for how young Olver is being raised. In the village, Mat sees Birgitte with a bow, but doesn't recognize her from Fal'meh when he blew the Horn of Valere (or from the memories given him by the Finn). Mat asks after Igwayne, Elayne, and Nine'eev and an Eyes Sedai leads him to the Little Tower to meet with the Amyrlin. A crowd begins to gather around. Anaiya brings Nicola who can see a glow around Mat since she has the Talent for seeing tahveeren. The rest of the Eyes Sedai are focused on Aviendha, recognizing that she can channel and has enormous strength compared to them. The Eyes Sedai begin asking Aviendha questions with the intention of getting her to become a Novice.

Nine'eev appears and asks Mat if he has anything to do with the dragonsworn army nearby and he replies that he is in command, but they are not dragonsworn. Nine'eev leads him to a room with Elayne and Igwayne, with Igwayne wearing the Ahmerlin’s stole. Mat snatches it off her shoulders and dresses her down for pretending to be the Amyrlin. The foxhead medallion goes cold when one of the women tries to use the Power to stop him. Mat begins a long string of orders to the three women and won't listen to what they are trying to tell them. He demands they let him speak to the new Amyrlin and they keep their mouths shut. A Novice then comes in to see if Igwayne needs anything and addresses her as Mother.





Chapter 39. Possibilities.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne tries to work out how she can use Mat to further her plans to lead the Salidar Eyes Sedai rather than be a puppet for one of the factions. Mat has accepted that Igwayne is the Amyrlin, but still tries to tell her what actions would be best to follow. Igwayne tells him she will make her own decisions on how to deal with Rand and with Elaida. After Mat leaves, Igwayne, Elayne, and Nine'eev decide how to manage him. They settle on sending him to Ebou Dar with Nine'eev and Elayne.

Sheriam arrives to speak with Igwayne and to make sure she didn't make any promises to Mat that she shouldn't have. Igwayne distracts Sheriam by suggesting they move everyone to Ebou Dar to get away from Mat and his army. Since going south is such a bad idea, and they can't go west (because of the Whitecloaks) or east (because of Mat's army), Igwayne is able to say the only option left is to start moving north, towards Tar Vawlyn. Sheriam is forced to agree.





Chapter 40. Unexpected Laughter.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat is trying to enlist Thom's help in getting Elayne, Igwayne, and Nine'eev to see things his way. After telling Mat a story, Thom concludes that Mat may not know the whole story needed to make a decision. Also, Elayne and Nine'eev are off to Ebou Dar in a couple of days, with Thom and Jeweleen going with them. Thom talks Mat into helping the women with their plans instead of trying to make them go along with his. Elayne will go with Mat back to Kaymlin when she is ready.

Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne starts looking for Aviendha but hears many rumors about Mat, the tahveeren, and the Eye’eel woman who can channel. Eyes Sedai are working to convice Aviendha to stay and train as a novice. Birgitte meets her and tells her two Eyes Sedai, Vandene and Adeleas, will be going to Ebou Dar with them. Elayne again tries to talk Birgitte into letting her tell Igwayne who she really is. Birgitte says that she can't because the expectations people will have for what an actual Hero of the Horn can or should do is more than she can bear.

Elayne finds Aviendha and takes her away from the Eyes Sedai. Aviendha wants to meet in Elayne's room and grabs a branch of wood to use as a switch. Once in the room, Aviendha strips and presents Elayne with the switch and the knife she's been sharpening for the last three days. Then she admits to loving Rand and to sleeping with him. Elayne can choose the knife or the switch, and use them as she wishes. Elayne realizes that Aviendha is the third woman from Min's vision. Elayne tells Aviendha that she has no toh.





Chapter 41. A Threat.



Point of view: Min Farshaw.

Min is heading to the Royal Palace of Andor to meet Rand before the Salidar Eyes Sedai delegation arrives. She catches herself thinking maybe it would be nice to wear a dress for Rand, then decides he will just have to take her as she is. A Maiden named Enaila guides her to Rand. Min has a viewing of some kind of wreath. When Min arrives, she notes a new aura around Rand, yellow, brown, and purple that makes her stomach clench. Finally she is allowed to go in and she feels all giddy, as a woman in love.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is overjoyed to see Min and twirls her around. They go to his rooms to get away from the nobles and have a private chat. Min gives him a letter where Elayne says her feelings for him haven't changed. Rand starts in on his feelings for Elayne and the constant battle he had with Aviendha. This upsets Min, so she tells him to not talk about other women in front of her. She comes over and sits in his lap while berating him for treating her so impersonally. He admits that he loves Elayne and Aviendha but must keep them away to protect them from those wishing him harm.

Min tells him she arrived with the Salidar Eyes Sedai embassy. She is the go-between for the Eyes Sedai with Rand, although her loyalty lies with Rand. The Eyes Sedai do not know that. Rand says he will allow three at a time to visit him but they are to stay away from the Inner City. They are not to channel around him, either. Sulin enters and drops the punch when she sees Min on Rand's lap. Rand tells Sulin he expects Min to be treated well by the Eye’eel and any harm brought to her, would be seen as done to him. She exclaims that only Aviendha would have a reason to harm Min and storms out of the room.

Melaine comes in and tells Rand about Igwayne leaving for Salidar, where the rebel Eyes Sedai are located. He tells her he already knows, while Min drowses on his lap. Melaine appears to disapprove of Min, but then Min murmurs that Melaine will have two daughters, twins like mirrors. Melaine is surprised because she only just became certain of her pregnancy that morning. She calls what Min can do "like interpreting the Dream". Min and Melaine begin discussing personal issues and Melaine sees Min as more than a Wetlander and has respect for her. Min then gives them both a rundown of the Eyes Sedai in the embassy, their personality, strengths, and weaknesses. She says that she thinks they can be trusted, but she admits that the viewing she had of him earlier means that Eyes Sedai will hurt him. Perhaps more than once.





Chapter 42. The Black Tower.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand asks Min if she would like to visit the farm with him, but the thought frightens her and she declines. She needs to head back to the Eyes Sedai from Salidar to let them know about Rand's rules. She gives him a brief kiss before leaving. Rand can sense that Alanna, the Eyes Sedai who bonded him, appeared to be on edge the night before but now appears to be in good spirits; Rand suspects she is with the nine Salidar Eyes Sedai. With Verin, that would bring the total to eleven. He goes to the farm without his Eye’eel guards.

The farm has changed a lot since his last visit. A new barn, more animals in pens, trees cleared, and some other buildings under construction. The men have started calling the farm the Black Tower as a balance to the Eyes Sedai's White Tower. Rand has the students assembled. He announces that they will be training to become Asha'man, which means "Guardian" in the Old Tongue. Just as the White Tower has ranks before a woman can become a full Sister, the Black Tower will have ranks before a man can become a full Asha'man: Soldier and Dedicated. The rank of Dedicated will be indicated by a silver pin in the shape of a sword on one lapel; the rank of Asha'man will be indicated by a red and gold pin in the shape of a dragon on the other lapel. Rand awards both ranks to Taim and places the pins on Taim's lapels. Taim's face looks like stone and Rand wonders what is wrong with him. Rand notices that there is no reaction from the men to his proclamation and is confused. Rand confronts Taim about his reaction during the ceremony and Taim says he disagrees about what to do about the Eyes Sedai in Kaymlin and there are rumors of Reds trying to intercept men coming to the farm. Rand has an argument with Lews Therin in his head. Taim can tell something is wrong and urges Rand to hang onto his sanity. Taim then says he can reduce the amount of Eyes Sedai in Kaymlin, to make things safer for him and Rand threatens him that if he feels a man using the power in Kaymlin or an Eyes Sedai dies mysteriously, he will make Taim pay for it. 





Chapter 43. The Crown of Roses.



Point of view: Merana Ambrey.

Merana, Seonid, Masuri, and Min are riding back to their inn after the first meeting between Rand and the Salidar embassy. Merana is reflecting on the meeting, which did not go well from her perspective. Verin and Alanna are also at the inn and Merana meets with them right after she arrives. Merana is displeased that Alanna bonded Rand but is still trying to find a way to use that to her advantage. Since they are not able to advise Rand directly, they are working behind his back by talking to some of the nobles that are in Kaymlin.

Point of view: Die’lin Taravin.

Kairen Stang meets with Lady Die’lin and talk about Elayne becoming available to take the throne.

Point of view: Luan Norwelyn.

Rafela Cindal meets with Lord Luan. She suggests that Andor will be better off if it is still united when Rand leaves.

Point of view: Ellorien Traemane.

Demira Eriff meets with Lady Ellorien. Ellorien wants to know who will sit in the Lion Throne when Rand leaves, but Demira simply says that, "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills."





Chapter 44. The Color of Trust.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat is rebuffed in his attempt to meet with Igwayne. Elayne and Aviendha have disappeared, Nine'eev runs away every time she sees him, and Thom and Jeweleen are nowhere to be found, either. So Mat just enjoys himself by dancing in the celebration for the new Amyrlin. He dances with Halima, who flaunts her bosom and watches to see if Matt looks at it. She isn't a very good dancer; partly because she tries to lead most of the time. She makes Mat a little uncomfortable, so he takes leave of her. As he walks away from her, his medallion goes cold, an indication of channeling. When Mat turns around, Halima is looking at him with a shocked expression. Myrelle approaches Mat about becoming her Warder, which he declines. He asks Sewan to dance before realizing who she is and she tells him to get lost. Lee’ahnna swoops him up and dances with him. She is not like the Keeper he remembers. When the dance is over, she kisses him and tells him that he's a good dancer.

The next morning Vanin is back and Olver has come along, too. That day Mat receives five offers to become a Warder. The next day he is finally summoned to meet with Igwayne, again. He is told that either he can go with Elayne and Nine'eev to Ebou Dar or be on his way with his army. He decides Ebou Dar is his only choice because of the promise he made to Rand. Before he leaves he tells Tahlmahness to shadow the Eyes Sedai if they decide to start moving, and if Igwayne ever comes to them, they are to grab her, carve their way through Gareth Bryne's army, and deliver her to Kaymlin.

The next morning Mat meets up with the Ebou Dar party consisting of Elayne, Nine'eev, Birgitte, Aviendha, Vandene, Adeleas, and a warder. Thom and Jeweleen also show up, explaining to Mat why they've been avoiding him. Igwayne arrives to see them off and Mat notices the other Eyes Sedai pretty much ignoring Igwayne. He decides that is intolerable and gives Igwayne an elaborate bow, which startles the other Eyes Sedai. Mat's men follow suit, and Igwayne thanks him for the show of support. Elayne then opens a Gateway to a location several days away from Ebou Dar. Elayne seems pretty pleased with herself, but Mat is irritated that the Gateway is too small to ride through, so everyone must dismount.

Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne wonders what orders Mat gave to Tahlmahness, but expects they were to follow her. The Eyes Sedai have already started preparing to move toward Tar Vawlyn and she plans to use the Band.





Chapter 45. A Bitter Thought.






Point of view: Vilnar Barada.


Vilnar and ten other Saldaean soldiers are patrolling the streets of Kaymlin. At the Whitebridge gate he finds an odd procession―a long line of farmers with longer bows than he has ever seen before. The leader has a short beard and a wicked axe at his side while a Saldaean woman rides beside him. Then he recognizes Zarine Bashere and wonders what he will tell Deira Bashere, considering the way she is looking at the group's leader.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin pauses when the Saldaean soldiers block the gate. Aram is eager to fight his way through, but Pairin calms everyone down and talks to Vilnar. Pairin can only bring a few soldiers into the city, so he has Dannil take everyone to a meadow to set up camp. Gaul, Bain, and Chiad head into Kaymlin without Pairin, to meet with other Eye’eel in the city. Faile appears to be very concerned that her father and probably her mother are in Kaymlin and she will have to face them for having run away and also gotten married. Pairin is worried about meeting Lord Davram Bashere as a father-in-law. Pairin also feels a tahveeren pull from Rand, which is what has led him to Kaymlin. They are finally taken by Eye’eel and Maidens to meet with Rand.

Rand greets Pairin and Faile very warmly, congratulating them on getting married. Min is there and Pairin greets her with a big hug, which stokes Faile's jealousy―until Faile realizes that Min is besotted with Rand. Rand asks about Loial and Pairin explains says he was with them most of the way but was feeling tired, so he headed off to the nearest Stedding. The women go off to have a talk, leaving Rand and Pairin to discuss the state of the world. Rand wants Pairin to go to Tear, to take over the fake invasion of Illian since Mat is no longer there. However, Pairin declines because he knows he must meet Faile's father. Pairin berates Rand when he learns that he is playing the two Eyes Sedai factions against each other. Rand tells him that the Eyes Sedai were never going to leave him alone and this way they are too preoccupied with each other to fully interfere with his plans. Rand then changes the subject to the Two Rivers and wants to know all about the changes. Once they have finished, Rand then asks Pairin to think on going to Illian again and let him know his decision. 





Chapter 46. Beyond the Gate.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


As Pairin finishes his meeting with Rand, he finds Davram Bashere waiting for him. Bashere simply says, "We will talk", and then leads Pairin to a room. At first, Bashere implies that Pairin is merely seeking access to the Broken Crown. Pairin retorts that he is merely a blacksmith. Then Bashere discredits Pairin's marriage to Zarine. Pairin insists it was valid―it was the same ceremony always used in the Two Rivers. Bashere dismisses it because Zarine isn't old enough to marry and if she doesn't convince her mother she will be sent to the Saldaean camp. And if that happens Bashere will have to kill Pairin. Eventually, after a long discussion, Bashere judges that Pairin is good enough to be Faile's husband and they go to see the women. When they get there, Pairin hears and then sees that Faile and her mother, Deira, have slapped each other. Deira questions Pairin's ability to dominate Faile. Eventually Davram tells her to back down and she does.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Min comes in and sits in her usual chair―Rand's lap. Min lets slip that Faile is the falcon from a previous vision and that she'll be furious when "the hawk" shows up. Rather than ask what that means, Rand asks if she's seen anything that concerns him. Twice Pairin will have to be there for Rand. Even if Pairin is there, he might not be able to protect Rand. But if he is not there, something bad will definitely happen to Rand. Min reminds Rand that she discovered that the Salidar Eyes Sedai are holding secret meetings with the nobles in Kaymlin. When Min leaves, Lews Therin begins again saying he should kill the Eyes Sedai and Rand has to concentrate to quiet him. 



Point of view: Demira Eriff.


Demira is hoping to meet an eyes-and-ears of hers that works in the palace library, but he must not have received her message on the meeting time. She's irritated because the men on the street keep admiring her because of her Domani dress, which she only wears out of habit. She begins her journey back to the inn through the alleys. She meets six men dressed like Eye’eel men. As they pass her, they stab her with their spears and she loses consciousness. One of them was a squat man with black, villainous eyes.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Sulin shows Pairin and Faile to their rooms and starts explaining everything to them. Not realizing she is not a real servant, Pairin gives her a tip to get rid of her. Sulin is furious, but accepts the coin and leaves in a huff. Faile lets Pairin know that spying is a wife's job and she is going to do it to protect him, even from Rand if she can. Pairin demands that she refrain from spying on Rand. She puts on a show of compliance. Then she suggests that they get working on the six (or more) grandchildren that they just promised to Deira.



Point of view: Demira Eriff.


Demira wakes in the Crown of Roses, surprised that she is not dead. Before losing consciousness, she received a verbal message that she and the other "witches" should stay away from the Dragon Reborn. At around the same time a stranger came into the Crown of Roses and announced that he had just seen an Eyes Sedai being pursued by Eye’eel who looked like they intended to kill her. At that moment Demira's warder, Stevan, felt her being stabbed. Stevan took Berenicia with him. None of Demira's injuries were fatal―a clear indication that she was meant to survive. The Eyes Sedai assume the warning and the attack were at Rand's direction. Verin enters and begins to take over from Merana to help set direction on how to respond to the attack. Verin is as strong as anyone else in the embassy and is much older, putting her at the top of the unspoken Eyes Sedai hierarchy. They decide to stop meeting with Rand for a few days.





Chapter 47. The Wandering Woman.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat, Olver, Thom, Jeweleen, and some of the soldiers from the Band are traveling to Ebou Dar with Elayne, Nine'eev, Aviendha, Birgitte, Vandene, and Adeleas.

After the evening meal, Elayne tells Mat that each evening he is to give her his ter'angreal for her to study, and that he will receive it back the following morning. She reasons that since according to the Law of the White Tower, all ter' angreal are the property of the White Tower, she technically has a right to take it from him. 

Mat refuses, and Elayne starts commenting on his handling of his men and camp as if she were in charge. For the rest of the trip, the Eyes Sedai periodically channel at Mat, trying different weaves to see if all weaves are neutralized by his foxhead medallion.

Although Mat only wants to talk to her, Nine'eev avoids him, as she is still worried about the kick she gave him.

After four days of mostly ignoring the channeling the Eyes Sedai subject him to, one of them uses saidar to throw horse dung at him, which makes him aware that the medallion does have certain limitations on its protections. They arrive in Ebou Dar and move into the city until they are in a large square with the Tarasin Palace on one side. Everything seems so peaceful that Mat doesn't understand why the dice start rolling around in his head. The women plan to go in to the palace where Queen Tylin resides and other Eyes Sedai from Salidar expect them. Mat decides he wants no queen, no palace, and especially no nobles, so he randomly picks an inn instead. He heads over to the inn he chose, the Wandering Woman and meets the innkeeper, Setalle Anan, at which point the dice stop rolling.





Chapter 48. Leaning on the Knife.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev, Elayne, Birgitte, and Aviendha are in their rooms in the Tarasin Palace. The other Eyes Sedai in the Palace do not accept that Elayne and Nine'eev are Eyes Sedai. Adeleas and Vandene are supposedly looking for runaways from the Tower. Elayne and Nine'eev doubt that; they think Adeleas and Vandene are going to try to find the ter'angreal that can fix the weather. 

A servant arrives and invites the three Eyes Sedai for an audience, but only Elayne and Nine'eev go since Aviendha is not an Eyes Sedai. After some frank discussion, they win Tylin over and have a more intimate discussion rather than an audience with a queen. They tell Tylin everything about their search for the bowl and get her promise to help if she can. They are introduced to her sole surviving son, Beslan, to whom she hopes to pass on her throne. Elayne believes they can wrap up their mission in ten days and get back to Igwayne.





Chapter 49. The Mirror of Mists.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand still wants Pairin to help with the plan to take Illian, but Pairin insists he needs to stay close to Rand to avoid a disaster. Loial comes in to the room after having a brief rest at an abandoned stedding. They tell Loial that his mother, and Elder Haman are looking for him with Erith, who is to become his wife. Rand plans to have Loial help place guards on all of the Waygates since they are all located near stedding.

Min rushes in to warn Rand that the Eyes Sedai are coming―more than the three they agreed would be the limit. Seven are coming and Rand is not sure he can handle that many, even with the fat man angreal. Rand hastily goes to the throne room and gathers as many Eye’eel as he can. When the Eyes Sedai arrive, they force their way in without ceremony. Demira Eriff speaks to Rand while the Eyes Sedai channel an Illusion to make themselves larger. Demira says they will no longer follow Rand's rules that limit their moving about the city and palace, they will decide themselves how many to bring to an audience with him, and he must show them proper respect. Rand channels, breaking the Illusion and shocking the Eyes Sedai. He informs them that the restrictions stand, that they owe him respect as the Dragon Reborn, and they are dismissed.



Point of view: Min Farshaw.


Despite Rand's orders, Min observes the audience from a doorway, but doesn't see much that helps. She does realize that there is some missing information that the Eyes Sedai know and Rand does not that is causing the tension between them. She talks with Mahiro Shukosa, one of the warders staying at the inn.

While Mahiro is considering whether to tell Min anything, Bera Harkin and Kiruna Nachiman enter the room from the baths. Min knew they were sent to the Waste to find Rand so is surprised to find them here. They both show a bruised aura. Both make comments antagonistic to Rand. With the nine sisters from the embassy, Alanna and Verin, and now Bera and Kiruna, there are thirteen sisters, which is a dangerous number since linked they can overwhelm any man and gentle him. She excuses herself from Mahiro as quickly as she can without seeming to be in a hurry.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is unhappy about the thirteen sisters in Kaymlin and decides to leave for Kai'rienne. He gives orders for those that wish to leave to gather at Pairin's room. He won't leave Pairin behind, so Faile and Loial are coming also. He sends for paper so he can write letters. He writes a letter to Taim warning him to stay away from Kaymlin. He writes a letter to Merana. Then he opens a Gateway for everyone to Travel to Kai'rienne.



Point of view: Merana Ambrey.


Merana has Rand's letter which allows her to bring five other Sisters to Kai'rienne. She realizes her embassy has failed and is not sure how things will progress, now. When Alanna finally arrives, Kiruna berates her for not controlling Rand after bonding him. Alanna retorts that it is like uprooting an oak tree with bare hands. Alanna speculates that the bond does not work on channelers as it does on others. Kiruna firmly takes control of the group from Merana and chooses the embassy to Kai'rienne. The other sisters are to escort the Two Rivers girls to Salidar. Kiruna ignores Rand's letter that allows only five Sisters and selects eight to accompany her.





Chapter 50. Thorns.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is resting in his room in the Sun Palace. He finds the flute Thom Merrilin gave him and tries to play for Min, but he is out of practice. His knees almost gave out after holding siedeen away from Lews Therin for so long when he was in Kaymlin. The Wise Ones descend upon him but finally decide he just needs rest. Min continues to flirt with him.

Rand visits the school in Kai'rienne where he sees more of the inventions that are being produced. He also visits Herid Fel, who is very distracted by Min. The next day he sends Rand a note:



"Belief and order give strength. Have to clear rubble before you can build. Do not bring girl. Too pretty."


Rand starts meeting with the nobles with Min secretly watching for auras. Lord Maringil is going to die by poison, Lady Colavaere by hanging, Lord Meilan by the knife. Lords Aracome, Maraconn, and Gueyam will be killed in battle. Min accidentally gets interested in philosophy and begins reading extensively the books she can find. Min sees an aura around Berelain that she will fall head-over-heals for a man in white. Min also begins practicing her knife throwing and hand-to-hand combat with the Maidens.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Berelain is stalking Pairin and Faile is jealous over it despite all Pairin's efforts to put Berelain off and assure Faile he is not interested. He tries going hunting, but Berelain is always waiting for him when he gets back to the city. He tries telling her to stop and she pretends not to know what he's talking about. Lords and Lady begin trying to get in his confidence, to find out Rand's plans.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


After ten days in Kai'rienne Rand estimates it will be ten more before Merana arrives. He will meet with Coiren twice in that time so that each embassy will have had three meetings. Then he expects the Salidar group will see reason before long and agree to support him openly.





Chapter 51. The Taking.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is preparing to meet with Coiren and the White Tower Eyes Sedai. Min is missing and he finally sends Sulin to go to the Eye’eel tents to fetch her. Coiren and the others come in with servants hauling two large chests of treasure. Rand gets furious when Coiren begins channeling only to find himself cut off from the Source despite his strength. He then notices that the servants are also Eyes Sedai and a full circle of thirteen is there to ensure he is shielded.



Point of view: Bain.


The Eyes Sedai exit with the chests and one of them addresses Bain, who is terrified to be confronted by an Eyes Sedai this way. The Eyes Sedai implies that Rand abruptly left the audience. They will return in a few days if he reappears, otherwise they may leave the city.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


When asked, Pairin has no information on where Rand might have gone. He decides to spend the entire day with Faile, but she grabs Loial to play stones with and ignores Pairin.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is in a basement, still stiff from being stuffed in a chest for transport. Six Eyes Sedai are maintaining his shield and Lews Therin is silent. He wonders why no one notices the massive amount of channeling.



Point of view: Sorilea.


Sorilea passes the house where the Eyes Sedai are staying. She vaguely notices the channeling, but they have been doing that since they arrived. She does wonder what happened to Min, who vanished on her way back to the palace.





Chapter 52. Weaves of the Power.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat is dicing at the Wandering Woman when Vanin brings word the women have vanished from the palace again and Thom doesn't know how. Mat makes a passing comment about the Daughter of the Nine Moons and a stranger almost chokes on his drink and responds with a slurring accent that he doesn't know that name. Elayne, Nine'eev, Aviendha, and Birgitte have been doing this for days and it grates on Mat. Instead of helping the women to search, he instead has to send the men out to look for them.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne is near another six-story building in the Rahad. The streets look the same, the buildings look the same, and she has no landmarks to use to guide her. She located the ter'angreal that can fix the weather in Tel'aran'rhiod, but she is unable to find it in the waking world. Elayne is channeling to disguise themselves and their ability to channel. This lets them leave the palace without Mat's watchers seeing and allows them to move about the city without appearing to be strangers.

Vandene and Adeleas are also searching in the Rahad, openly, but no one will deal with Eyes Sedai. A duel is fought in front of them, with one man near death. Before Elayne can intervene, a red-belted woman kneels by him and tries to Heal him but his injuries were too great and he dies. Mat and Nalesean walk by, but don't recognize them.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne is meeting with Logain, to get his view on Rand's amnesty for men that can channel. Logain grows agitated, so Igwayne leaves. It has been sixteen days since they left Salidar, with Tahlmahness shadowing them with Mat's army, about ten miles behind. The two armies attract recruits, with most of them going to the Salidar Eyes Sedai, which was part of the plan when they separated Mat from his men.

Igwayne goes to bed and enters Tel'aran'rhiod to meet with Elayne and Nine'eev. She hopes they have found the bowl, but they haven't. They exchange news, and then end the meeting. Sewan is waiting in the tent when she wakes. Sewan has finished arranging for Logain to escape. Igwayne fears that the Hall will decide to gentle Logain or that someone will murder him to remove the problem. She hopes she is doing the right thing.



Point of view: Myrelle Berengari.


Myrelle and Nisao are waiting for LAN to arrive at a camp separate from the rest of the Eyes Sedai. When Mworane died fighting Lanfear, she passed his bond to Myrelle, which is not proper without the consent of the warder. LAN arrives and they begin the Healing that he needs.





Chapter 53. The Feast of Lights.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


The Cairhienin are enjoying the Feast of Lights with abandon, very different from their usual prim ways. Everyone is kissing and most of the women don't have their shirts on. Rand has been gone for six days and the Eyes Sedai left three days ago. Faile is still jealous and Pairin can't figure out how to resolve things between them. Dobraine arrives to inform Pairin that Lord Maringil was found poisoned while Lord Meilan was stabbed, apparently by a footpad. Also, Colavaere has been meeting with some of the Kai'rienne houses to push for her right to the Sun Throne. Berelain enters, angering Pairin because she has been stalking him. He shouts at her to leave him alone. Startled, she drops her bundle―Rand's sword, which he would not likely have left behind. Sulin realizes that the Eyes Sedai have taken Rand and begins to wail. Sulin tells Luaine to bring her some cadin'sor and to fetch Rhuarc and Nandera immediately.

Eye’eel begin arriving as different pieces of the situation are brought to light. Colavaere would only be trying for the throne if she was sure Rand would not be back. The Shaido are moving out of Kinslayer's Dagger, so Rhuarc can not bring as many Eye’eel as he would like. Also, the only Eye’eel who will be willing to fight against Eyes Sedai are the Maidens and the Siswai'aman. Dobraine will bring his men and the Wise Ones will come to counter the Eyes Sedai. Pairin also plans to call the wolves to aid him. Pairin shouts at Berelain, again, and for some reason Faile is hurt by this.



Point of view: Galina Casban.


Galina is pressuring Min for information. She doesn't understand why Sewan was so interested in her. Rand killed two of Erian's warders when he saw Min had been captured also. Since then, he has been trying to break the shield, even though he is punished when he tries. There are thirty-three Eyes Sedai in the camp. Galina wants to gentle Rand immediately, but that would be against her orders.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is pulled out of the box they have him in. Erian begins to beat him with channeled flows. After he finally recovers from the beating, he notices that there are Wise Ones in the camp, including Sevanna. He is put back in the box where he competes with Lews Therin for access to siedeen. Finally he tells Lews they should work together and gets a response. Lews tells Rand he can unravel the shield if they tie it off, but not so long as they actively maintain it.



Point of view: Galina Casban.


Galina plans to use the Eye’eel to get rid of Gawyn and his Younglings. She isn't worried at all that the Eye’eel savages have Wise Ones that can channel. She plans to punish Rand twice a day until they reach Tar Vawlyn, probably in twenty days.



Point of view: Sevanna.


The Wise Ones learned the weaves to shield and hold Rand, so Sevanna can proceed with her plan to take Rand from them. She is supposed to use the call box to call Caddar, but she decides to discard it, instead. Sevanna plans to marry the Car'a'carn and keep him shielded and on a leash. The Wise Ones kill Desaine, one of Sevanna's rivals, using the One Power to make it appear that she was killed by Eyes Sedai. Sevanna will use this as an excuse to attack the Eyes Sedai.





Chapter 54. The Sending.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin, Gaul, and Loial head toward the river to cross over to chase the Eyes Sedai that have taken Rand. On the other side of the river they meet up with Dobraine and Havien Nurelle from Mayene with their Winged Guards. Later they meet up with the Eye’eel who can only bring five thousand siswai'aman and another thousand Maidens. Amys is one of ninety-four Wise Ones that are coming.

That evening Pairin seeks the wolves and identifies himself to them as Young Bull. He asks them about the Eyes Sedai camp and estimates it is sixty to seventy miles ahead. The wolves ask why he is seeking their help. He tells them that the Eyes Sedai have caged Shadowkiller, the wolf name for Rand. The wolves are consumed with terror and rage and their howls can be heard for miles.

There are tensions between the groups in Pairin's company, especially Cairhienin and Eye’eel but also the siswai'aman and the Maidens. Pairin is worried that the tensions won't be kept in check until they catch up to the Eyes Sedai. Sulin and Nandera both want to be in charge of the Maidens and they finally have a contest to decide. Sulin wins, but then lets Nandera have the leadership anyway. Sorilea and Amys appear to disagree on how to deal with the Eyes Sedai but they finally resolve it peacefully between themselves, with Sorilea being in charge.

On the seventh day the wolves let Pairin know another large group is heading the same direction and getting close. The banners they picture identify them as the Two Rivers men. Pairin rides out to meet them. There are nine Eyes Sedai which Pairin hopes will be useful in the fight, but there were only supposed to be six. He recognizes Verin and Alanna. Alanna was able to point them in the direction of Rand and the Two Rivers men followed since they expected Pairin to be with Rand. The Eyes Sedai are outraged and terrified that Rand has been abducted. They accompany Pairin and keep trying to take charge, but Pairin ignores them. On the tenth day they are closing in on the Eyes Sedai when the wolves send that Pairin should come right away because there are many two-legs.





Chapter 55. Lord of Chaos/Chapter 55.






Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Gawyn is observing the landscape near Dumai's Wells while most of the Younglings have been positioned at the rear. He spies a horse galloping back toward the group. It is one of his men who dies moments later. Gawyn immediately orders battle preparations. He argues with Galina, but she finally gives in about stopping and making preparations when she sees the dead man.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand has been kept folded up in a chest barely large enough for him. He has been baking in the hot sun every day. He can tell Alanna is close but doesn't know what that means. When the wagon stops and the chest is taken down, Rand expects to be let out to be fed. When the chest stays closed he fears they will leave him in there all night and starts shouting to let him out but all he hears is a laugh.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin looks from the top of a ridge and finds a scene from a nightmare. Forty thousand Shaido completely surround a camp of wagons. There is a lot of channeling and some wagons are on fire. There are several hundred Shaido Wise Ones channeling. The fight appears hopeless but Pairin is determined to try to free Rand anyway. As they begin their charge, Pairin calls out to the wolves to come now. Pairin's only thought during the fight is they have to reach Rand. Bera, Kiruna, and the other Eyes Sedai join the fight, even though they were not supposed to. Pairin hears a loud boom, then a Gateway opens nearby, and black-coated men pour through and join the battle. Even with the additional help, Pairin believes the fight is almost lost and thinks sadly of Faile.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is still doubled up in the chest when first one, then three more of the shields on him are tied off. With guidance from Lews Therin, he begins to work on those four knots. He breaks one knot, so now there only five and the shield is thinner. Then he breaks another. A third Eyes Sedai joins the shield. Frantically Rand gets through the third knot. He pushes at the shield to reach siedeen and finally succeeds. He crushes the remaining three 'soft points' in the shield with Spirit. Then he uses Air to explode the chest apart. Nearby are two women who are unconscious and a third who is screaming. A few paces away Min is on the ground and Rand crawls to her to find she is alright and glad to see him. He feels men channeling and sees that Taim and the Asha'man have arrived to rescue him. He begins to shield and knock unconscious the Eyes Sedai, beginning with Erian. Gawyn arrives and offers to take Min out of the battle. When she refuses, he rallies the Younglings to cut their way out, vowing that he will see Rand die.

The Asha'man create a barrier of Air with Rand and some of Pairin's remaining forces inside. He notices Alanna and the Eyes Sedai with her, noting that there are nine. Rand tells Taim to disperse the Shaido, which the Asha'man do with ruthless efficiency by slowly expanding the dome of Air and exploding Shaido as they come inside the dome. The slaughter is so horrific that the Shaido turn and run away. Bera and Kiruna come over to Rand to take charge but he orders them to kneel with the Tower Eyes Sedai because they brought nine instead of six. The Salidar Eyes Sedai fulfill prophecy by swearing fealty to Rand beneath the ancient banner of the Eyes Sedai.





Chapter 56. The Answer.






Point of view: Falion Bhoda.


Falion receives a note from a Darkfriend in Tarasin Palace livery. Like Mat, she is trying to watch Elayne and Nine'eev so she can find the angreal cache Moghedien sent her to Ebou Dar to look for. She doesn't know why they are there, but she suspects that they will lead her to the cache. Unfortunately, they elude her watchers as well as they elude Mat's.



Point of view: Narrator Setting: the School of Kai'rienne.


A gholam squeezes under the door to Herid Fel's study and tears him limb from limb. When Idrien finds the remains, she faints.



Point of view: Shawn'chin rider Setting: outside Ebou Dar.


The Shawn'chin man that heard Mat's comment about the Daughter of the Nine Moons while in The Wandering Woman is leaving Ebou Dar to report. He hopes the city resists the Return so there will be loot to be had.



Point of view: Moghedien Setting: Salidar.


Moghedien is still furious with her situation, being held by an a'dam and living as one of Igwayne's personal servants. Igwayne is a terrifying mistress but Sewan is worse. Aran'gar enters Moghedien's tent and channels a light, but Moghedien cannot see the flows. It is Halima, but she must be channeling siedeen like a man and realizes Halima isn't what she appears to be. Halima says she is Aran'gar and when the a'dam is removed, she will immediately be sent to Shay'ole Ghoul. 



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer Setting: Salidar.


Igwayne feels the necklace being removed and hastens to Moghedien's tent, but she is too late. The pain of the a'dam coming off tells her that it was removed by a man who can channel. She worries briefly that it could have been Logain, whom she helped to escape.



Point of view: Demandred Setting: the Pit of Doom.


Demandred believes he has done well and says that to the Dark Lord but laughter fills his head. For once, he does not care that Shaidar Haran is watching him.





