Chapter 0. Lightnings.






Point of view: Elaida.

Elaida watches from the top of the tallest tower in Tar Vawlyn as workmen below work to construct her new palace on what used be the Warders' practice yard. She lives and usually works in her rooms in the Tower even though it means many stairs to climb. She recognizes that the Last Battle is approaching due to the unseasonable heat that persists into winter. She re-reads a message from Kai'rienne, telling her that Rand al'Thor has been captured by Galina's forces twelve days ago.

Alviarin enters with reports. Elayne and Nine'eev are in Ebou Dar, so Elaida orders them to be taken, using Forkroot, and brought to the Tower. She also orders that Toevienne, a former Red Sitter who was exiled for her involvement in the Vileness, is to take fifty sisters and two hundred of the guard to take the men who can channel at the Black Tower, despite Alviarin saying there may be four hundred men there who can channel. Alviarin also reports that the Salidar Eyes Sedai are on the move, with Igwayne al'Veer as their chosen Amyrlin and Gareth Bryne leading an army of twenty thousand for them. Alviarin suggests increasing the Tower Guard, but Elaida scoffs at the idea. Then she has a Foretelling:



The White Tower will be whole again, except for remnants cast out and scorned, whole and stronger than ever. Rand al'Thor will face the Amyrlin Seat and know her anger. The Black Tower will be rent in blood and fire, and sisters will walk its grounds. This I Foretell.Elaida
The White Tower will be whole again, except for remnants cast out and scorned, whole and stronger than ever. Rand al'Thor will face the Amyrlin Seat and know her anger. The Black Tower will be rent in blood and fire, and sisters will walk its grounds. This I Foretell.— Elaida


Point of view: Sevanna.

Sevanna is readying the Shaido for the attack on the Eyes Sedai at Dumai's Wells so she can capture Rand al'Thor, the Car'a'carn. She is already making plans for her wedding and on how to prevent the Wise Ones from sending a man to Roy'deonne to become the new clan chief of the Shaido so she can remain in charge. One of the Eye’eel reports a scout for the Eyes Sedai escaped, so Sevanna orders all of the spears to attack immediately, ignoring counsel from the sept chiefs to keep back a screen.

The Eyes Sedai erect a barrier of Air that keeps the Eye’eel out. A battle between the Wise Ones and the Eyes Sedai begins with fireballs and lighting. A lightning strike near Sevanna knocks her back to the ground and kills some of the Wise Ones near her. Then, without warning, a wolf kills one of the Wise Ones near Sevanna and then she sees wetlander and Eye’eel forces attacking from the south. A loud boom sounds from the direction of the Eyes Sedai, then some some strange flashes of light that Sevanna doesn't understand. The Eyes Sedai efforts appear to be waning, but then a dome appears around the encampment, stopping all efforts by the Wise Ones and the algai'd'siswai to attack.

Then a slaughter of the Shaido begins when the earth begins erupting all around the dome. They finally break and try to run even while those behind press forward. Finally Sevanna leaves the battle with the rest of the survivors. She still has the call box.

Point of view: Alviarin Freidhen.

Alviarin notes to herself all of the different factions among the Eyes Sedai as well as the fear of what Elaida might do next. Alviarin wonders if she will need to kill Elaida as she has killed others. Mesaana is in her room to receive information and give orders. Alviarin believes Mesaana must be hiding in the White Tower, as one of the sisters that had been absent for many years. Mesaana decides to teach Alviarin how to weave a Gateway, but warns her to not teach anyone else or use it without permission.

Point of view: Pedron Niall.

Niall is losing at stones to Morgays. She requests to see her son Galaad, but Niall does not want him to know his mother is kept as a prisoner by the Whitecloaks. Their talk is interrupted by Abdel Omerna, the faux spymaster for the Whitecloaks. He brings a message from Tarabon, then moves close to Niall and stabs him with a knife. Eamon Valda enters and kills Omerna. The message is about the existence of the Shawn'chin army and Niall considers it of the highest importance.

Point of view: Eamon Valda.

Asunawa enters and prevents Valda from finishing off Niall. Valda plans to engage the Prophet's mob and then enter Andor with Morgays even though Asunawa wants to put Morgays to the question immediately. Niall's final act is to try to draw Valda's attention to the message. However, the ink is destroyed by the wine spilt over the floor.

Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.

Gawyn is trying to regroup the Younglings that survived the Dumai's Wells and escaped from Pairin's force. He has around two hundred men left from almost six hundred that left Tar Vawlyn. He spies an Eyes Sedai nearby but her horse is killed and there are Eye’eel nearby. Before he can rescue her, another group of Eye’eel attack his men and by the time the skirmish is over, the Sister is gone.





Chapter 1. High Chasaline.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Pairin Eyebarra is sitting a few miles south of Dumai's Wells and contemplating. Today is High Chasaline, a festival where one should think about the good and happy things in one's life. He finds that very difficult to do. He feels guilty about having led a lot of wolves to their deaths. The Eye’eel pester him with messages carried by naked Shaido gai'shain because they like to watch him stammer and blush. Pairin watches the Tower Eyes Sedai under guard by Asha'man and their Warders under guard by Mayeners. The Eyes Sedai do their best to ignore the stilled Sisters in their midst.

Aram suggests killing the Eyes Sedai to take that problem off Rand's shoulders. Pairin forbids him to speak of it again. Jondyn Barran also mentions that it would be better if the Eyes Sedai were dead, which makes Pairin start to fret.

Pairin fears that the temporary alliance between Eye’eel, Cairhienin, and Mayeners will soon break apart. The Asha'man and the Wise Ones add their negative feelings towards the Eyes Sedai and each other to the situation, too.

Loial is also uneasy with the situation of keeping the Eyes Sedai prisoners.





Chapter 2. The Butcher's Yard.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Before joining Rand, Pairin surveys the graves the battle of Dumai's Wells has left behind―19 Two Rivers men, near to 100 Mayeners, more than 100 Cairhienin, 1000 Eye’eel―and the carnage of the Shaido dead in the valley below, with all the survivors massed around Rand, namely Asha'man, Mayeners, Cairhienin, and Maidens. Kiruna Nachiman asks Pairin what Rand is doing. Pairin knows that Rand is memorizing the faces and names of every Maiden that died. He remembers listening to Rand last night reciting the names of dead Maidens like a catechism. But Pairin doesn't tell Kiruna that, instead he upbraids her and the others for not following orders to wait with the Wise Ones and wading into the midst of battle with Havien Nurelle and his Mayeners. Kiruna retorts that this is the only way to take part: because of the Three Oaths, if Eyes Sedai want to use the Power as a weapon, they must place themselves or their Warders in mortal danger.

Rand comes up the slope. Wise Ones and Asha'man alike want to have custody of the Eyes Sedai, prisoners and oath-sworn both. Rand decides that all Eyes Sedai present will be supervised by the Wise Ones. Bera and Kiruna try to protest but Rand reminds them that they swore oath to obey and serve him until after the Last Battle. Rhuarc reports that the surviving Shaido are running fast eastwards and the Younglings are heading north. At the urging of Kiruna and Bera, Rand commands Healing from Alanna. Taim presses Rand into accepting an honor guard of Asha'man. Besides four Dedicated and four Soldiers, Rand chooses Corlan Dashiva at random. Pairin wonders about Rand's scent that is changing fast enough for two men.

The Cairhienin and Mayeners are uneasy about Rand poking around among the slaughtered until Pairin bluntly tells them that Rand still is sane.

The various groups ready themselves for departure; the Asha'man Travel back to the Black Tower. Pairin tells Rand about the tensions between the factions. Min interrupts a staring match between Rand and Pairin when they talk about murdering the Eyes Sedai. Rand asks Min whether she has seen something and Min explains to the startled Pairin how her Talent manifested and that the Eye’eel know about it and don't look crosswise at her for it. She doesn't see anything clear, though.

Loial asks Rand to talk to him about his book and Rand promises that they'll talk when they're back in Kai'rienne. Rand has Dashiva make a Gateway near the City of Kai'rienne and learns that Taim lets himself be called M'Hael, which means "Leader" in the Old Tongue.





Chapter 3. Hill of the Golden Dawn.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Rand's party goes through the Gateway to a place some miles to the northeast of the city of Kai'rienne. Pairin laments internally about the Red Wolfhead and Red Eagle banners he doesn't want but that the Two Rivers men keep carrying. He thinks about Elayne, who, as the new Queen of Andor, won't like the latter banner but will perhaps be lenient. On the other side of the Gateway, all regroup as for a battle. Pairin remembers a conversation before the opening of the Gateway. Rand asked Flinn and Grady whether he could expect his enemies to have been idle while he was a prisoner. Flinn answers that only a fool would think so. Rand then asks Dashiva who replies that he doesn't know about having enemies since he grew up on a farm. Rand tells him that he will have enemies, now that he is close to Rand.

Finally through, Rand declares that he can only trust Pairin, Min, and Loial. All the time Pairin is concerned about Rand's scent which is mixed and jumping enough for two men. Pairin wants Rand as Dragon Reborn to hold on and stay sane and is ashamed that he doesn't always see his friend under the layer of Dragon Reborn anymore.

Feraighin, a Wise One with the Eye’eel in Kai'rienne, approaches the Wise Ones of Rand's party. They talk, then wait for Rand, Pairin, Min, and Aram to join them. Feraighin bears news from Kai'rienne: Rand's disappearance has affected the Eye’eel and pushed the bleakness to new heights (1000 per day), rumors have spread that Rand is wearing an Eyes Sedai leash, and Colavaere has crowned herself queen. Kiruna tries to bully in but is ignored. Rand asks about Berelain and is told she is well. Pairin is in great anxiety about Faile and wonders why Rand doesn't ask about her. Feraighin also tells that bubbles of evil have risen in the city and people have died. Further she tells Rand that Caraline Dawmodred, Toram Riatin, and the nobles with them have met with Darlin Sisnera and his party out of Haddon Mirk. They sit some distance from the city and feast. The Wise Ones also have noticed about ten Eyes Sedai in the city, staying in the manor house of Arilyn Dhulaine. Pairin asks about Faile and is told she is well. Kiruna delivers a pretty little speech trying to tell Rand that he has to be guided by her and Bera―but is ignored again. Rand just tells the Wise Ones to take all Eyes Sedai into custody now so the world can see that Rand is not on an Eyes Sedai leash.

Gaul rants about Chiad's behavior, leading him on when she does not want to marry him. Pairin realizes Chiad and Bain are here and not in the city with Faile and his temper flares because of his anxiety. Loial tries vainly to calm him.





Chapter 4. Into Kai'rienne.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Pairin is impatient as Rand's party nears the city of Kai'rienne. He notices Chiad avoiding him. Pairin gets the strange idea that if he brings Swallow, Faile's mare, safely into Kai'rienne, Faile will be safe. Min and Loial both vainly try to ease his fears. Loial's trying gets him to say that he can hardly wait to be married to Erith so he can tend her. Loial gets embarrassed about this statement and accuses Rand and Pairin's being tahveeren for pulling it out of him.

On the way Pairin notes that the drought brought on by the Dark One is even heavier and the people are bedraggled.

When they come near the city, Dobraine confirms Colavaere's banner flying, so she has to have taken the throne. He tells about the coronation festival and that the people in the city could riot when Rand disturbs that. Dashiva tries to get Rand to remain with the army and send someone else into the city, to no avail. Pairin deduces from Dashiva's jittery scent that he is quite mad. Rand goes to the city with Loial, Min, Dobraine, Nurelle, some Maidens, all of his Asha'man (except Flinn), Pairin, and Aram.

Just before the city, Pairin notices that the Foregaters once again live outside of the city in crudely built huts. The party enters Kai'rienne unhindered and unchallenged because of the coronation festival. At the Palace, the guards get wrapped up in Air by the Asha'man so as not to alert the people inside. The servants inside just curtsy or bow and seem to ignore them. In the entry hall they encounter Camaille Nolaisen, Selande Darengil, and a handful of others that follow the Cairhienin version of ji'e'toh. Camaille tells Rand that the nobles all are in the Grand Hall of the Sun for the third Sunset Convocation. Dobraine explains that means the coronation took place nine days ago. Pairin cannot restrain himself any longer and asks Selande where Faile is. She says that Faile is with the queen, as she is one of her attendants. Rand asks Selande to lead on to the Great Hall. He intends to dispense justice to all who deserve it.





Chapter 5. A Broken Crown.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.






Rand and his entourage enter the Grand Hall of the Sun. Rand confronts Colavaere, confirming that he means the Sun Throne for Elayne. Colavaere objects. Rand pulls the Sun Crown out of her hair, snapping it in the process and then mending it with siedeen. Colavaere pleads her right to the throne with Rand. Pairin accuses her of murdering the Lords Maringil and Meilan and asks the whereabouts of Berelain, gaining an icy look from Faile. Colavaere refutes the accusations and since Rand shows no reaction, calls for Annoura Larisen to advise her. Annoura introduces herself to Rand and explains that she is Berelain's adviser, not Colavaere's, regardless of what she had let Colavaere think. Rand informs her that he is not the one that has shielded her. The crowd realize that the black-coated men must be male channelers. Faile then speaks up and reveals Colavaere's treason: plotting to break her oaths of fealty and sending the Eye’eel out of Kai'rienne. Further she reports the vanishing of the maid Maire, whom Colavaere had confided in. Dobraine formally accuses Colavaere of treason, for which the penalty is death. She denies the charges. Annoura then relates the story of Berelain's thief-catchers and that they found Maringil's and Meilan's murderers. They had confessed before Annoura and named Colavaere as initiator of the murders. Dobraine adds murder to the charge of treason, for which the penalty is death by hanging―"like a commoner". Colavaere, overwhelmed by the evidence and penalty, demands the headsman instead of being hanged for murders. 

Rand, troubled by Min's viewing of Colavaere's death, seeks a way out of having to order another woman killed. The Dragon Reborn strips Colavaere of all her titles, lands, estates, and possessions and exiles her to a small farm near the Dragonwall. Colavaere collapses and Rand catches her with Air and gently lowers her body down. The nobles don't take Rand's verdict easily―they fear losing their nobility more than they fear death. Rand commands Annoura to take him to Berelain and dismisses the audience, saying that he will forget every face that leaves now. The nobles crowd hastily out of the Hall.





Chapter 6. Old Fear, and New Fear.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

As the nobles continue to flee, Pairin joins Faile on the dais in the Grand Hall. She obliquely suggests to Dobraine to kill Colavaere. Dobraine rejects the idea. Pairin insists that Rand wouldn't want anything to happen to Colavaere. Faile is relieved when Pairin reassures her that Rand is on no Eyes Sedai leash. They walk to their rooms and Pairin chases away Selande and her friends that attempt to follow them. Faile is jealous, fearing Pairin might be taking an interest in Berelain. She makes a scene about him asking about Berelain. The First had spread rumors that she was keeping Pairin as a pet somewhere outside the city. Colavaere had taken delight in making Faile and Berelaine attend her together for the sole purpose of causing Faile discomfort. Pairin loses his temper and makes it clear to Faile in no uncertain terms that he loves only her and how afraid he has been for her. He is angry about her jealousy. His anger seems to sway Faile's mood from jealousy to affection, however…

Rand barges in unexpectedly and at first keeps talking about Berelain. As Pairin asks if there is anything else, he inquires whether Pairin will reconsider leading the Tairen army against Illian. Pairin says he's not cut out to be a general. He also refers to Min's viewings that "twice Pairin had to be there, or Rand would go down in disaster." Pairin thinks the first was the Battle of Dumai's Wells, but the second is still to come. Rand appears unconcerned about the risk. Pairin changes the subject to another of his concerns, the Eyes Sedai, and demands that Rand not harm them, insisting that he will not allow something to happen to them. The threat angers Rand but the Dragon Reborn promises not to, "harm any Eyes Sedai who don't deserve it." Rand ends the discussion with an abrupt declaration that he has something else for Pairin to do, so he will only be able to rest for a few days. Alone again, Pairin and Faile carry on where they had been interrupted.





Chapter 7. Pitfalls and Tripwires.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand's thoughts churn in his head. He has to make three visits tonight, one of which will have to remain secret. Lews Therin rants about killing the Asha'man. Rand silently asks Lews how he is different from them. Lews Therin asks right back whether Rand is real. Rand thinks about the time in the chest, when Lews Therin had been his only companion, his only friend. Also in the chest he started experiencing flashes of color and motion whenever he thinks of Mat and Pairin. 

Sulin urges Rand to get on with what they are doing because it is late. He opens a Gateway and lets himself feel the strength of the accompanying Asha'man as they pass him. Lews Therin again wants to kill them and tries to wrest siedeen away from him. Rand screams at Lews about killing Ilyena and his loved ones. In Andor, after the Gateway closes, Lews Therin expresses relief at having left Alanna behind. Rand lets himself and Fedwin be tied and cloaked like prisoners so that nobody learns of this visit to Davram Bashere and Bael. Rand has some hard moments in the dark of his hood. In the room with Bashere and Bael, Rand finds Deira Bashere, Melaine, and Dorindha. Deira, Melaine and Dorindha shower him with questions. When he comments about them being here in the first place, Bashere and Bael tell him that you can't keep too much from your wife and that he will see that when he is a married man, too. Rand angrily asks what woman he could hate enough to marry her to the Dragon Reborn, causing an awkward silence.

Deira wants to know what he intends to do about the Eyes Sedai. Bael tells Rand that Tar Vawlyn has put itself against him; Rand replies that he will let them be and ignore the kidnapping as long as they don't move against him again. While the others argue about whether Elaida will leave him alone, Rand looks at maps and thinks of Elayne, Mat and the Band of the Red Hand, and Sammael in Illian. He hears that Die’lin has put Elenia and Naean in prison for treason as they had themselves declared queens and that Die’lin has been named Regent. Eyes Sedai gather in Kaymlin, but no more than ten at a time. Rand misses the Fat bald man angreal, but it hasn't turned up in the things that were recovered from Dumai's Wells.

Rand tells them that Fedwin can carry messages to him, that he will leave other messengers with Semaradrid and Weiramon, and that the attack on Illian will begin soon.





Chapter 8. The Figurehead.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne al'Veer is meeting with Sewan Sawnchay and Sheriam Bayanar. She decides her army needs to pause for a day but Sheriam believes they should pause for a longer time. Chesa, Igwayne's maid, makes comments supposedly to herself but meant as advice to Igwayne. These offhand comments also unsettle Sheriam, which gives Igwayne an edge. While reading reports, Igwayne wonders where Logain Ablar has gone since she arranged for him to escape from Eyes Sedai captivity.

Igwayne puts on the a'dam bracelet that connects her to Moghedien, known to others as Marigan. Igwayne forces Sheriam to admit that ten sisters, two from each Ajah except Blue and Red, were sent back to the Tower to spread rumors that the Red Ajah arranged for Logain to be proclaimed as a False Dragon.

Igwayne feels a stab of pain through the a'dam bracelet, realizing that a man has channeled to remove the necklace that Marigan wears. Igwayne excuses herself and then hurries to Marigan's tent only to find her gone.





Chapter 9. A Pair of Silverpike.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne has Lee’ahnna Sharif join her and Sewan Sawnchay even though it risks revealing that Lee’ahnna and Sewan are not truly antagonistic towards each other. Igwayne wishes them to find out what they can about the man who freed Moghedien. They suggest passing the task to Faolain Orande or Theodrin Dabei.

Igwayne is suffering from fairly constant headaches and hasn't been able to find a cure for them. Taking a walk she stops at the Traveling ground where Sisters are returning with pigeons from Salidar with messages from eyes-and-ears across the land. A few days ago Sisters finally admitted to Igwayne that the delegation to Rand in Kaymlin has not reported for a while. The first report was positive from the delegations' view point but Igwayne doesn't really believe they made a good assessment of Rand. Igwayne knows from the Wise Ones that Rand moved to Kai'rienne, which makes Igwayne suspect that Merana has misstepped with Rand. They've also told her that the White Tower delegation has left Kai'rienne, which feels wrong to Igwayne. Igwayne mutters that she should go to Rand, but Lee’ahnna overhears and reminds her that the Amyrlin can not put herself in danger without permission from the Hall.

On her way back from her walk, Nicola Treehill stops her and pleads to be allowed to gain strength faster. Areina Nermasiv is there, too, since she usually keeps company with Nicola. When Igwayne refuses, the pair try to blackmail Igwayne with information they overheard from Thom and Jeweleen on the way to Salidar. Igwayne threatens them with dire punishments, while inwardly she wonders how much this information could damage her position if it is ever revealed.





Chapter 10. Unseen Eyes.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne prepares for bed with assistance from her maid, Selame. She looks out the tent window and sees a woman watching the tent. She puts herself to sleep the way the Wise Ones taught her and enters the World of Dreams. She warns Nine'eev and Elayne about the blackmail attempt by Nicola, and also about the escape of Moghedien, by passing a message to them in their dreams. She then finds Amys and makes a request to meet her, which is accepted. Gawyn's dream almost catches her, but she moves to the meeting place in the Stone of Tear to wait for the Wise Ones.

Amys, Bair, and Melaine arrive and sit down beside Callandor to hear what Igwayne has to say. She informs them that she has been raised as Amyrlin to the rebel faction of Eyes Sedai. They correctly deduce that she may only be a figurehead rather than truly in command. The Wise Ones let Igwayne know that Merana and the other Eyes Sedai have traveled to Kai'rienne but did not bring pigeons so they can report back. They do not tell her about Rand's kidnapping by the White Tower Eyes Sedai or that the Eyes Sedai have sworn fealty to him.

Igwayne dreams of Gawyn after she returns from Tel'aran'rhiod, but they are a Dreamer's dreams not normal dreams.



Gawyn walking barefoot across broken glass, his feet bleeding.
Gawyn on a horse faced with a choice of two paths. One path lead to his death, the other to a long life.
Mat reaching into the sky to grab exploding fireworks, which would lead to many deaths.
Igwayne with her neck on a headman's block with an axe descending and someone rushing to save her
Logain stepping over Rand's body to mount a black stone
A golden female hawk touches Igwayne and they become tied together
A man lies dying in a bed; it's important that he live, but a funeral pyre is prepared
A dark young man holds a brightly shining object




Chapter 11. An Oath.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

After waking up before dawn, Igwayne finds Theodrin Dabei and Faolain Orande in her study tent. They report that no one saw a man around Marigan's tent although some did notice Halima was around. Faolain and Theodrin explain that they are unhappy that most Eyes Sedai do not properly support Igwayne as their Amyrlin Seat. They tell her that they do not like her, but they are loyal to her. They swear an oath to her as evidence.

Igwayne spots Myrelle riding by and asks her to wait. Lelaine and Romanda arrive to rant about Delana's proposal to declare that Elaida is Black Ajah. Gareth Bryne arrives and wishes to show Igwayne something. Igwayne has Sewan fetch horses and when Lelaine and Romanda begin bickering with each other, leaves for a ride with Gareth, Sewan, and Myrelle. They discuss the road ahead and what might happen when they reach Tar Vawlyn. Gareth Bryne implies that the army is Igwayne's, not the Hall's.





Chapter 12. A Morning of Victory.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne rides with Sewan Sawnchay, Myrelle, and Gareth Bryne. They discuss the Band of the Red Hand and Tahlmahness. A caravan is encountered and rumors of Rand being taken to swear fealty to Elaida in Tar Vawlyn are about to spread. Igwayne plans to make an announcement to the soldiers that this is untrue, which she knows from her conversations with Amys and Bair in Tel'aran'rhiod the night prior. Bryne is impressed by Igwayne's reaction and suggests that the army is under her command.

After dismissing Gareth, Sewan leads the women through the nearby forest, and it becomes clear she is leading them to a secret place, although Igwayne does not quite know what is going on. Eventually it becomes clear Myrelle has been hiding something, and Myrelle leads on to an encampment where they find LAN. He has had a disease of the mind since Mworane's death, with hollow laughter behind his cold blue eyes. Igwayne realizes that Myrelle has bonded him and although she is trying to help him recover, she also bonded him without his consent, a serious crime in the eyes of Eyes Sedai. She has also been bedding him. Igwayne decides LAN needs a mission that requires him to stay alive, and weaves a Gateway for Skimming and takes him 5 days north of Ebou Dar, with instructions to keep Nine'eev safe. Igwayne also works out that Nicola and Areina knew about LAN and were blackmailing the two sisters to get what they wanted.

When Igwayne returns she convinces Myrelle and Nisao that swearing to her will be better than the punishment they will receive from the Hall for taking LAN's bond without his consent. Igwayne and Suian head back to the camp, but she refuses to eliminate Nicola and Areina when Suian suggests it, saying there will be no end if she begins it. She then shares her plans to force the rest of the Salidar Six to swear to fealty to her also. 

Back at the camp she reads the proposals from Romanda and Lelaine to address the Black Ajah. Halima comes in to her tent to help with her headaches and mentions Delana has a proposal about the Black Ajah she plans to put before the Hall.





Chapter 13. The Bowl of the Winds.



Point of view: Aviendha.

Aviendha is on a boat with Elayne, Nine'eev, and Birgitte, trying to grasp in her mind the vast amounts of water that make up an ocean. They worry a bit since being warned by Igwayne that Moghedien escaped, but they resolve to just be careful. Aviendha suggests they rely on Mat's tahveeren abilities to help find the bowl. Nine'eev immediately rejects the idea but Elayne considers it to be a good idea and asks Birgitte to broach the subject with Mat. They arrive at the largest Sea Folk ship in the harbor and prepare to board. The Sea Folk do not wish to allow Eyes Sedai on their ship but Elayne tells them that they already know that the Windfinders can channel.

Aviendha finds the jewelry worn by the Sea Folk to be very strange, especially the nose rings. Malin din Toral Breaking Wave is the Wavemistress for clan Somarin. They move to a cabin where they encounter Nesta din Reas Two Moons, the Mistress of Ships for the Atha'an Miere. Nine'eev attempts to bully them but Elayne intervenes and asks for channelers to help fix the weather when they find the ter'angreal bowl. When Elayne describes the bowl, the Sea Folk identify it as the Bowl of the Winds. The Sea Folk begin working on terms of a bargain for their aid with the Bowl of the Winds and the shorefolk are way out of their depth.





Chapter 14. White Plumes.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat is at the Silver Circuit to watch the horse races. Mat has Nalesean Aldiaya put all his money on Wind, which is ridden by Olver. Nalesean hands the booker several bags of gold. Jeweleen Sandar arrives and tells Mat that the girls hired a boat and Thom hired another to see where they go. Mat scans the crowd and one woman catches his attention, but he's not sure why. Finally he remembers her as a woman who tried to kill him when he and Rand were making their way to Kaymlin. Wind wins the race, which allows Nalesean to collect a large chest of gold while Mat heads out to follow the woman. She stops at a goldsmith's shop so Mat turns in to a ring seller. Mat is encouraged to try on a ring and when the woman starts moving again, the ring won't come off. Mat has to pay and shoves a bunch of coins at the merchant. As he leaves, the ring slips off his finger. She finally enters a small palace and when Mat mutters about who lives there, a scrawny white-haired fellow nearby says, "Chelsaine Palace is let to Carriden". As Mat ponders the information he now has, the dice start tumbling in his head again.





Chapter 15. Insects.



Point of view: Jay'kem Carriden.

Carriden has been stirring up mobs in Altara and Murandy to provide justification for the Children of the Light invading to restore order. He also has orders to abduct Elayne Trakand out of the Tarasin Palace. He rebukes Shiaine Avarhin for her lack of progress on her assignment to find a stash of angreal, sa'angreal, and ter'angreal. As he looks out the window, Carriden spots Mat talking to a white-haired old man. Sammael arrives in his room and Carriden reports spotting Mat outside. Sammael emphasizes that the search is the most important thing Carriden should be working on, the only thing. During their conversation Shiaine is frozen. When Sammael leaves, she is startled since Carriden is not in the place he was a moment before, at least to her. Despite his orders, Carriden tells Shiaine to focus on finding Mat.





Chapter 16. A Touch on the Cheek.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat decides to visit Elayne and Nine'eev, so he goes to the front entrance of the Tarasin Palace. The dice are rolling in Mat's head. After a long trek through many corridors and stairways, being handed off to one servant after another, Mat stumbles across Joline Maza and Teslyn Baradon of the White Tower Eyes Sedai. Then Adeleas Namelle, Sareitha Tomares, and Merilille Ceandevin of the Rebel Eyes Sedai arrive. The two groups of Eyes Sedai start a tug-of-war with Mat's coat as the rope. The servant Laren returns to summon Mat to see Queen Tylin, which ends the Eyes Sedai confrontation in a stalemate.

Mat gives a flowery greeting to Tylin without realizing that he is speaking the Old Tongue. Tylin allows him to compose a message to Elayne and Nine'eev which he seals with the signet ring he hastily bought when he was following the Darkfriend Mili Skane. He notices that it is a fox startling two birds into flight. He decides to tell the queen that Carriden, the Whitecloak emissary, is entertaining Darkfriends, which she accepts. Tylin tries seducing Mat, gently touching his checks until her son, Beslan, enters. He announces that he's won another duel, but accidentally killed the man and owes condolences to his widow. Tylin introduces Beslan to Mat and suggests they become friends.





Chapter 17. The Triumph of Logic.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat returns to the Wandering Woman from his visit to Tarasin Palace, feeling fortunate to have escaped from Queen Tylin. Mat arranges for Vanin and Harnan to begin watching Carriden after he explains the Darkfriend Mili Skane he saw visiting. Upstairs on the way to his room he is attacked and ends up killing two men sent to abduct him.

He finds a note in his pocket warning that Nine'eev and Elayne need to be more careful if they want to avoid being sent back to the White Tower. Mat figures either Joline or Teslyn must have slipped him the note since they were the only two who came close enough. Despite the kidnapping attempt, the dice are still rolling in his head.

Point of view: Joline Maza.

Teslyn tries to convince Joline that they should be trying to get Elayne and Nine'eev back to the Tower. Bringing Mat and Aviendha would be a bonus. Joline convinces her that there is no rush and they are both upset with Elaida for sending them to Ebou Dar.

Point of view: Falion Bhoda.

Falion is torturing one of the Wise Women of Ebou Dar for information on the cache of ter'angreal that they seek but accidentally kills her instead. Arnin and Nad are ordered to dispose of the body. She and Ispan are still following orders from Moghedien even though the Forsaken has not contacted them for a long time. Falion no longer believes there is a cache to be found. Instead she believes they should capture Nine'eev for Moghedien and perhaps Elayne also.

Point of view: Noalle Charin.

Noalle is watching a goldsmith's house where two Eyes Sedai are staying. He sees two men leaving the house with a wheelbarrow and wonders what they are up to. He touches his forehead, trying to remember something, but all he knows is that it is something he has to remember soon.





Chapter 18. As the Plow Breaks the Earth.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand meets with Indirian, Mandelain, and Janwin. He wants to dispel rumors that the Eyes Sedai in Kai'rienne control him. Instead the Eyes Sedai serve him with Merana literally serving them tea. Earlier, the Wise Ones told the clan chiefs that the Eyes Sedai sided with Rand. But, the clan chiefs are still wary and believe Eyes Sedai would do anything to get what they want. The topic changes to handling the surviving Shaido that fled from Dumai's Wells to Kinslayer's Dagger. They agree that all Shaido should be killed or made Gai'shain within the next few months. Although it is against custom for Wise Ones to engage in fighting, their Wise Ones will deal with the traitorous Wise Ones of the Shaido. Mandelain asks if they'll get to see the Three-fold Land again. Rand slowly replies, "I hope so," but knows the Prophecy of Roy'deonne says he'll destroy the Eye’eel. The clan chiefs depart on good terms with Rand.

For a brief moment, Rand looks at the scattered maps on the floor. He feels overwhelmed by his many priorities from Tar Vawlyn to Illian to Ghealdan, from Shaido to Asha'man to Forsaken, and with both Alanna and Lews Therin in his head. 

Berelain storms in with Annoura to protest being sent back to Mayene. It was for her own safety due to a recent assassination attempt likely related to Colavaere sympathizers targeting her. Berelain says it was nothing, plus she is best suited to handle the Atha'an Miere who still await an audience with Rand and how crucial both sides are to each other. Rand wonders why she works so hard to keep the thankless position of interim leader of Kai'rienne, but realizes she must use every opportunity and connection to protect her small nation of Mayene. He clumsily guarantees something for Mayene. She clarifies that new allies gain his favor while her past service will be forgotten leaving Mayene at risk. Quietly, he asks if she'd still serve even if it meant leaving.  

Cadsuane Melaidhrin enters abruptly. Annoura gasps thinking Cadsuane was dead. Merana screams she mustn't harm Rand. Rand feels a woman channeling saidar. Tensions rise and both Asha'man and Maidens go to high alert. Cadsuane coolly reassures Annoura she's very much alive, scolds Merana to calm herself, and ignores Rand's questions while inspecting the Asha'man. Again, he asks her who she is and why she's here. She continues ignoring him until finally acknowledging that Mworane didn't teach the Dragon Reborn better manners. Cadsuane compliments Berelain's beauty and curtsies deeply, yet politely dismisses Berelain so she can talk to Rand. Surprisingly, Berelain reminds him about meeting Harine din Togara Two Winds of the Atha'an Miere and politely leaves. 

Cadsuane insults Rand by criticizing the ornate decor, asking for tea, and calling him a "good boy." Fuming, he asks why she's here for the 3rd time. Cadsuane calmly explains she is a Green, but as the oldest living Eyes Sedai she's helped put away many male channelers, often in tears. Feeling threatened, Rand smashes the tea set into a wall mirror with the One Power. Calm as ever, she says she knows Rand's future and present, and coolly asks whether he's begun hearing voices. He demands an explanation, feeling Lews Therin listening inside. Apparently, some male channelers hear voices as they fall into madness. The two Asha'man guards, Dashiva and Narishma, react oddly. Rand begins doubting his sanity and Lews Therin's existence. Finally, she says Rand is young and overwrought, so she'll leave to catch up with Merana and Annoura while he calms down a bit. Rand screams for everyone to get out. Once the room is empty, he hurls the Dragon Scepter into a chair and begins questioning his sanity over and over.

The door opens quietly and Riallin brings in Head of the School Idrien Tarsin. She bursts into tears and falls into Rand's chest. After she delivers her news, Rand wants to weep too.





Chapter 19. Diamonds and Stars.



Point of view: Merana Ambrey.

Merana nervously follows Cadsuane back to the Eyes Sedai quarters, where Cadsuane interrogates her, Kiruna, Annoura, and Bera about everything they know of Rand, Dumai's Wells, the Asha'man, and all recent events. Daigian watches deferentially as she was the longest serving Novice and Accepted in recent memory, before acquiring the shawl. Cadsuane asks all the questions of the other sisters and answers none directed at her.

Point of view: Min Farshaw.

Min is on her way to tell Rand that Colavaere Say’gahn hanged herself. She enters the throne room and finds it in disarray, the throne toppled and mirror shards everywhere. Rand tells her the news of Herid Fel's death (torn apart, likely at the hands of Shadowspawn). She tells him to kiss her, and that she is not kidding. Their embrace slowly becomes more intimate, and they start to take off each other's clothes.

Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin.

Cadsuane is leaving the Sun Palace and observes the many Eye’eel wilders, reflecting on her difficult situation with Rand. She remembers that her last failed task was 270 years ago.





Chapter 20. Patterns Within Patterns.



Point of view: Sevanna.

Sevanna is sitting with some of the Shaido Wise Ones, two days after the disastrous Battle of Dumai's Wells. They decide to use the callbox ter'angreal they were given. After it is activated, Caddar speaks to them through the callbox and Sevanna asks to meet in ten days where they met before. Instead Caddar is able to find their location and to Travel there within minutes. He brings Maisia with him and pretends that she is under his control. Sevanna was supposed to have Rand and Caddar was going to give them a way to control him. Sevanna asks to have the secret of Traveling since they arrived from somewhere else so quickly. He promises to get them some traveling boxes, similar to the callbox, for a price.

Point of view: Moridin.

Moridin has been watching the meeting between the Wise Ones, Sammael, and Graendal. Since he is covered in fancloth (except for his eyes), he is essentially invisible. He hears Sammael claim that he has a truce with Lews Therin, that he has been named Nae’bliss, and that he had no hand in Rand's kidnapping (but that Mesaana surely did). He briefly considers killing Sevanna and the Shaido Wise Ones with her, then discards the idea. He uses the True Power to rip a hole and step outside the Pattern. There are black spots flicking across his eyes.





Chapter 21. Swovan Night.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat is attacked again, this time by beggars. He believes it is a robbery attempt, but it is really a kidnapping attempt. He kills or injures all of the attackers. To the north he can see some fireworks. A dance is in progress when he returns to the Wandering Woman and he joins right in. Caira, in a huff, informs him that there is a "gilded" woman in his room, so he climbs the stairs and finds Birgitte in his room. The dice are still rattling in his head. Just as he starts to speak to her he remembers what he saw at Fal'meh when he blew the Horn of Valere. He recognizes her as a Hero of the Horn, not just a woman with the name Birgitte. She is relieved that he remembers but isn't affected by the knowledge. Mat tries to tell her she should make Elayne and Nine'eev leave because Ebou Dar is too dangerous. However, Birgitte explains that she is now Elayne's Warder and must obey Elayne. They decide to continue their talk downstairs over a pitcher of wine.

Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev, Elayne, and Aviendha skipped the Swovan Night Ball, instead sitting around worrying about what Mat will do when Birgitte talks to him. Nine'eev senses a storm coming, but this is another kind of storm, not wind and rain. Elayne begins to act strange, tapping her foot with gaiety instead of the somberness of earlier. Elayne begins to dance around the room. Thom is playing stones with Jeweleen while making comments to the women on the political situation. Elayne changes her appearance, which gives away to Thom and Jeweleen how they have been leaving the palace without being seen.

Birgitte enters, and she is quite drunk. The warder bond between Birgitte and Elayne can transfer and amplify emotions in some situations, which is why Elayne seems to be drunk. Elayne says the bond is not supposed to work that way, but a Warder has never been the same sex as the Eyes Sedai before. Nine'eev demands to know if Mat is going to show up in the morning as she ordered. Mat is still upset with the women for when he rescued them in the Stone of Tear, for which he received a scolding instead of thanks. Aviendha tells Elayne that she has toh to Mat. Elayne concedes the necessity of apologizing to Mat, but Nine'eev keeps ranting that she will never apologize.





Chapter 22. Small Sacrifices.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne and Nine'eev are outside The Wandering Woman, preparing to see Mat and apologize. Aviendha and Birgitte are disguised and watching Jay'kem Carriden. Nine'eev is sulking and insisting she will not apologize. Elayne gives her apology, then has to flick Nine'eev with saidar to get her to do the same. Mat just shrugs it off, which infuriates Elayne but causes Nine'eev to lunge for Mat, attempting to attack him. Elayne is able to stop Nine'eev but she understands her anger. Elayne is able to swallow her pride and goes on to make a number of promises, including agreeing to bodyguards when they leave the palace. Elayne then explains to Mat that they are looking for the Bowl of the Winds and what they know about where it is.

They ask Mat to move into the palace. He agrees and then mutters that the dice have stopped rolling around in his head. He moans more when he learns that Tylin picked out his room and it is just down the hall from hers. They leave Mat's room and Nine'eev complains about how much trouble he will be. Setalle Anan meets them and states that they will be more trouble for him. Setalle believes they are pretending to be Eyes Sedai and won't listen to any of their protests. She assumes that since Elayne is too young to be an Eyes Sedai, Nine'eev must be pretending also. Elayne believes she once traveled to the tower but that her power was so weak, they turned her out. 

Setalle says she knows women who take in strays if they were once in the tower and had run away or were put out, or if they were wilders and had never been to the tower. Nine'eev finally realizes that Setalle might be able to lead them to other women in Ebou Dar that can channel, and that those women might know where the Bowl of the Winds is located. Therefore, she and Elayne agree to Setalle's terms.





Chapter 23. Next Door to a Weaver.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Setalle Anan bullies Elayne and Nine'eev because she thinks they are pretending to be Eyes Sedai. She leads them to the leaders of the Wise Women of Ebou Dar. Elayne is indignant over the treatment but Nine'eev believes this may help in their search for the Bowl of the Winds. On the way Setalle stops at many inns to pass on the sad tale of the girls spending all of their money to impress a man. They stop at a house next to a weaver.

Reanne Corly is unhappy with Setalle for bringing the girls to her home, but Reanne still shows deference for some reason. Reanne and two others question Nine'eev and Elayne to make sure they really spent time in the Tower. This group helps women put out of the Tower, but not wilders or runaways. Finally Elayne puts her Great Serpent ring back on her finger and states that she is Eyes Sedai and Nine'eev does the same. They plead for information on the Bowl. They are told they will not be helped and they should leave the city since the Eyes Sedai in the Palace will be told. They are escorted out of the house.





Chapter 24. The Kin.



Point of view: Reanne Corly.

Reanne watches Elayne and Nine'eev leave the house and discusses the situation with Berowin. Members of the Kin are those that left the White Tower, often for failing the test for Accepted or for the shawl. Sarainya Vostovan enters and informs Reanne that Callie is dead and the One Power was used to kill her. They are confused about who would do such a thing.

Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev realizes she will have to apologize to Elayne about the value of letting Setalle Anan lead them to the Kin and she hates to apologize. Elayne wonders aloud how old Reanne must be to show gray in her hair; Nine'eev feels put upon that slowing makes her look too young to hold authority. Nine'eev is struck in the head and groggily notices that Elayne has collapsed to the ground. A man and woman attempt to help them to a carriage but Nine'eev notices a blunted arrow laying on the ground. It must have grazed her and struck Elayne. Nine'eev channels to force would-be helpers (and a cutpurse) away. She Heals Elayne and they start debating who might want to kidnap them. They finally agree, though, that Mat will have to be the one to help find the Bowl of the Winds.





Chapter 25. Mindtrap.



Point of view: Moghedien.






Moghedien is awakened from her repeating nightmare of her escape from Salidar to  Shay'ole Ghoul. In the dream, she's escorted to the Pit of Doom by Shaidar Haran to be received by the Dark One. Moghedien is forced down by Shaidar Haran and had her soul imprisoned in a mindtrap. After some painful lessons by Shaidar Haran to acclimate Moghedien to her new position, she is removed from the vacuole and then turned over to a young man with bright blue eyes and saa flecks in his eyes, suggesting that he's used a lot of the True Power. Moghedien is rude to him until he shows her that he holds her mindtrap. She is still Chosen, but she can no longer scheme on her own—she must do the will of Moridin.





Chapter 26. The Irrevocable Words.



Point of view: Morgays Trakand.






Rhadam Asunawa has begun torturing Morgays to gain a confession that will let him hang her. Eamon Valda has forced her into his bed. The combination has left Morgays very depressed until Breane shocks her back to awareness with some frank talk. Tallanvor rushes into her bedroom and Basel Gill explains that he saw a very large bird land on top of one of the buildings. A battle begins in the fortress and Tallanvor correctly guesses it is the Shawn'chin. While they wait, Morgays senses the One Power being used as part of the fighting.

Shawn'chin soldiers arrive and take Morgays to the High Lady Suroth. Suroth shows off her pet lopar and her damane, Jinjin and Pura. Pura was once Eyes Sedai. Suroth explains that the Empress is a descendant of Artur Paendrag Tanreall and they have returned to take back the lands that were once his. Suroth commands Thera to perform a ritualized dance and then comments to Morgays that she is the former Panarch of Tarabon. Suroth strongly suggests Morgays either swear to the Shawn'chin or she will be made da'covale like Thera. Once returned to her rooms, Morgays decides to rescind all rights to the throne so Elayne can ascend to the throne without interference. Sebban Balwer arrives and helps Morgays and her followers escape from the Shawn'chin and leave Amadicia.





Chapter 27. To Be Alone.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.






Pairin is preparing to leave Kai'rienne. As he departs, he notices that Rand's servants in the palace have adopted black livery. He then recalls why he is leaving the palace: Rand threw him against a column in front of a room of nobles. All of them turned away except Dobraine. Pairin and Rand had argued about how the Eyes Sedai had been "handed over" to the Wise Ones and Rand ordered Pairin out of Kai'rienne as a result of their disagreement.

On his way to the stables, Pairin encounters Loial, who has been given a commission. Loial announces that he and Karldin are to go to each stedding to warn the Ogier that the Waygates are being used by Shadowspawn and close them, if necessary. Pairin suggests that Loial should remember to keep quiet about the Waygates; Pairin then leaves, believing he will never see Loial again. He meets with Faile north of the city. Faile still has a jealous scent since Berelain is also going with the party. All of the Two Rivers men, a large group of Mayeners, and a few Eye’eel and Wise Ones make a considerable force under his command. Using Gateways opened by Neald and Grady, his party Travels to Ghealdan. Pairin enters a forest to the east and meets with Aram and Faile. Faile has a number of people accompanying her, including Bain, Chiad, Gaul, Selande, Camaille, and Seonid. Some Kai'rienne citizens also join in.

At their destination, which Pairin reveals to be Ghealdan, Pairin informs them that they have a mission. They are to track down the Prophet of the Dragon and tell him to stop his reign of fear, and then they are to bring him and his followers back to Rand. The troupe waiting for him shows their enthusiasm for this task with a great deal of exuberance. As a side mission, they are to convince the Queen of Ghealdan, Alliandre, that they are not an invading force—which is why Berelain has been brought along.





Chapter 28. Bread and Cheese.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat still has a hangover from drinking too much with Birgitte the night before. Now that he has agreed to move into the Tarasin Palace, he has to let his men know and get things started. Vanin will continue to watch Carriden's palace to see who comes and goes. Caira is upset about the women coming to visit Mat even though he didn't invite them. His rooms are luxurious and everything he could want except for them being just down the hall from Queen Tylin's rooms. Tylin enters and begins pursuing Mat around the room as he tries to back away and come up with an excuse to leave.

Thom and Jeweleen arrive, providing the excuse Mat is looking for to get away from Tylin. They explain to Mat how they found out the women are able to use the One Power to disguise themselves, which is how they avoided all the watchers he tried to use. Elayne and Nine'eev finally return and immediately set Mat to watching the house where the Kin live. Nothing happens the rest of the day so he returns to the Palace and finds a note indicating Tylin is having him for dinner. Instead he locks the door and goes to bed but is unable to sleep with wondering if Tylin won't find a way in anyway.

The next day he is asked to continue his watch while the women disguise themselves and watch Carriden. Birgitte joins him and Nalesean, but not much happens that day or the next. Mat arranges to have Olver moved into his rooms to keep Tylin out but finds out that she has ordered that Mat gets no food from the kitchen. When he wakes up on the morning of the Festival of Birds, the dice are spinning in his head again.





Chapter 29. The Festival of Birds.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Matrim Cauthon wakes to the sound of dice in his head and grumpily gets out of bed after a private debate on whether he should continue to sleep until the dice go away. Chasing Nerim off, he dresses himself while breakfasting on last night's cheese and bread, and then checks on Olver who asks him dozens of questions about the day's activities. Mat muses on why the dice have started up; he had no clue last time they did and he has no clue this time.

With Olver finally dressed they both enter the sitting room, to find Queen Tylin there. Mat covers his surprise and panics, placing Olver between himself and the Queen. He looks at the door he locked last night which is now standing wide open, while the Queen smiles at him in what seems to him a mocking smile. He babbles about the day's plans, and then realizing he is babbling, shuts up and edges toward the door, with Olver kept protectively in place, like a shield.

Tylin responds by agreeing that Olver needs supervision, and then calls in Riselle, a servant already dressed for the day. Riselle sinks to her knees in front of the boy, dangling a mask just his size and invites him to join her at the festival. With such an invitation, Olver breaks away from Mat and accepts her invite, Mat naming him, silently, an ungrateful little lout. Before he can object the two are out the door.

Then, calling him such endearments as "my sweet" and "lambkin," Tylin explains that she has a second key, waving it in front of his face for emphasis. Using one of the keys, she locks them both into the room, and then places both of them in her belt. He snaps, and angrily attempts to retrieve one of the keys, actually laying hands on her, muttering that he doesn't have time for this. She whips out a dagger and places it beneath his chin in such a manner that he has to stand on his tip toes or face a cut.

Coldly, she instructs him to remove his hands, then tells him to place his hands at his sides, since he wants to play roughly. He pleads with her, demanding to know what she is going to do, going so far in his panic as calling her by her name, which is a dangerous thing to do in Ebou Dar without first obtaining permission from the woman. Tylin does not answer, but using the dagger as a kind of goad, backs him up until he hits the bedpost in his bedroom. He suddenly comes to the conclusion that Tylin may be attempting to seduce him, and protests weakly, but to no avail.

A considerable time later, it is obvious that she has had her way with him. He smokes his pipe furiously, naked except for the foxhead medallion on his chest and the silk scarf tied around his neck. She chastises him because she says that he enjoyed himself as much as she, and then jokingly suggests that her great pleasure must have come from him being tahveeren. Meanwhile she sheathes both the dagger and her marriage knife which was used during the festivities.

Mat protests that he is the one who is supposed to do the chasing, and then privately considers that she would be chaseable if she were a tavern maid and if she didn't have a son who liked poking holes in people. Tylin laughs while informing him she left him a gift in the sitting room and admonishes him to eat well—he is going to need his strength.

Mat covers his eyes and attempts not to weep. When he uncovers them, she is gone.

He grumbles about how she peeled off his clothing with her knife as he walks around the room wrapped in one of the bedsheets. He dresses and then stuffs the clothes Tylin cut from him underneath the bed until he has a chance to dispose of them without Nerim finding out.

He checks the box where the room key is normally kept, and it is gone; he had expected as much. He ponders his options and finds that none of them are attractive and blames it all on the women in his life.

He finds Queen Tylin's gift, wrapped in green, and placed on one of the tables in the sitting room. Inside is a festival mask, twenty gold crowns and a note that instructs him, "piglet", to get his ear pierced and buy himself something nice. Very nearly weeping with frustration, he protests silently once again that he is supposed to do the chasing and then takes the mask, reasoning that it is worth the cost of the coat that Tylin cut off of him.

He meets Birgitte and Nalesean in the courtyard, both dressed for the festival and Birgitte wearing a revealing dress, a style in which Mat had never seen her. She explains that sometimes its fun to be looked at, and that the dress is both pretty and functional. She then asks what kept him, hoping out loud that it wasn't to tickle a pretty girl. Mat hopes he isn't blushing. He is about to answer when twenty men join them in the courtyard, decked for the festival, except for Beslan, the Queen's son, who is twirling his mask instead of wearing it. Mat demands to know what he is doing there. Nalesean responds that Beslan intends to spend the festival with Mat, though it will be boring. Beslan refuses to believe that, saying that he never had as much fun as when he went drinking with Mat and Lady Elayne's Warder on Swovan Night, Mat thinking that he does not realize that the woman he is examining with satisfaction is that Warder. Birgitte actually smiles under the scrutiny.

Mat does not care; he just doesn't want to spend the day with Beslan, partly because of his most recent bedtime experience, and the likelihood that when the Queen's son finds out about it, he will use his sword to skewer Mat.

Mat tries to talk Beslan out of it, but gets nowhere, except to begin exciting the man's ire. He, Birgitte, and Nalesean leave the palace, taking half a dozen "feathered fools" following, he muses, because of Birgitte's attire.

Mat and she exchange banter about her behavior while Beslan was examining her. He muses that the world is strange when one woman is a drinking buddy—a friend—and the other chases him, whether he wills it or not.

They enter the Festival proper. Beslan explains that on cold days the festivals stray indoors. On hot days, it spills out into the streets. He also promises that the night will be much better than the day. As the daylight fades, Beslan is proved right, as inhibitions also fade.

Mat finds himself more and more amazed; he wants to shout sometimes, "put some clothes on!" but does not.

Part of the Festival is an object called a "setting"—large decorated carts with various persons dressed as casually as on their birthdays. They are remarkable to behold, and followers trail behind them, throwing coins and sometimes notes. Sometimes Mat's party has to race to an alley keep from getting stampeded, waiting while the setting passes by.

At one of these waits, a man approaches—a beggar—and Beslan prevents Nalesean from donating because he is not wearing a brass ring signifying membership in the Beggars Guild. Mat protests and finds himself attacked by that beggar. Mat grabs him and throws him back into the crowd.

A second beggar attempts to push Birgitte out of the way in order to get to Mat, and is stabbed by her for his trouble. A third beggar approaches, and Mat attempts to warn Birgitte with a shout but fells him with his own knife, thrown sideways. And suddenly they are surrounded by beggars with knives and spiked clubs. A melee follows.

Mat and Birgitte fight back-to-back. One of the beggars mention "Old Cully" not liking this as the fight continues. Suddenly beggars assault the beggars who are assaulting Mat's company. Beslan, covered with blood, nevertheless grins and encourages Mat to leave the premises and let "The Fellowship of Alms" finish the job, stating there was no honor in fighting beggars. Mat takes a moment to note the disarray the grinning company has been thrown into, all but Birgitte, who looks as neat as when they started out.

Mat growls at Beslan demanding to know if beggars in Ebou Dar go around attacking people. Beslan laughs and says it is because he is tahveeren. Mat bitterly muses that if his throat is slit, then he will not have to go back to the palace to be peeled like a pear.

The group stops at the Rose of Elbar to enjoy some bad tea. Mat's companions begin to grow restive as the sun rises. They soon realize that they are not going to get so much as a kiss from Birgitte so they wander off in search of more exhilarating entertainment. Both Birgitte and Nalesean wander off on their own errands leaving Mat and Beslan alone. Beslan observes that he never expected to see a Warder dressed like that, taking Mat by surprise. Beslan then follows up with the observation, "I think you will be good for my Mother, Mat." Mat spews bad tea on bystanders, but nothing more than glares come of it.

Mat asks what he means, and Beslan says, "that my mother chose you for her pretty." Beslan then asks Mat why his face is so red, and if he is angry. Then he realizes that Mat is embarrassed and explains that Tylin is his mother, not his wife, and that she has always been too busy for a pretty prior to Mat's appearance. When Mat stomps off, he asks where he is going and Mat says he needs to clear his head. Beslan observes that Mat is drinking tea, but Mat pays no attention. Instead he stomps off, incredulous that they both know. He shouts back at Nalesean's query that "If I'm not back by tomorrow, tell them that they'll have to find it for themselves!" His head is so madly spinning at the whole culture of this topsy-turvy city that he doesn't realize the dice are still spinning in his head.

Point of view: Reanne Corly.

Reanne watches Solain head toward the river, noting that some fellow follows. She accepts it, as Solain can handle men.

She wonders why the urge has grown so strong today. She spoke the order before she thought, and it had been something she could not retract until the proper time. At least those two fools, Elayne and Nine'eev, were not around and had not been for days, and there had been no need for taking dangerous chances.

All the while she keeps reassuring herself that "all will be well."

She turns, and we learn that she is in a room with twelve others, who are Elders, but she is Eldest. She then tells them that they should consider moving all those wearing the belt to the farm for a while. She then muses that as Eldest there is no harm in behaving as Eyes Sedai do.





Chapter 30. The First Cup.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Merilille leads a trial against Elayne in the presence of other Salidar Eyes Sedai including Adeleas and Vandene. She and Nine'eev are accused of seeking knowledge of the Kin, which is prohibited. In their opinion it doesn't matter that Elayne and Nine'eev were never told that it was prohibited. Pol rushes in with a letter from Jay'kem Carriden, delivered by Tylin, which Elayne reads. Therein, Carriden states that Morgays is alive and he offers Elayne protection across Altara to visit her, where she is currently under the protection of the Whitecloaks and Pedron Niall. Furious and disbelieving, Elayne throws the letter and uses Fire to burn it.

Incensed and energized, she rounds on Merilille and reminds all present that she and Nine'eev are Eyes Sedai with the authority of the Amyrlin. Elayne's authority from the Amyrlin supersedes their own from the Hall of the Tower. The other Eyes Sedai agree that she has authority over them. Adeleas, Vandene, and Merilille explain that the Tower has known about the Kin for hundreds of years, and that they rely on the Kin's network to track down and find runaways. Eventually all present apologize to Elayne and pledge to help her. The Tower believes the Kin is a small group but Elayne tells them that it is not the case.

Point of view: Moghedien.

Moghedien spots Nine'eev getting onto a ship with a red cabin, then uses compulsion to have an innkeeper show her a roof in Ebou Dar. She sees the ship with the red cabin in the river and uses balefire to destroy it. At the last moment, pigeons erupt from the roof and startle her, causing her to miss the cabin. Instead the balefire splits the boat in two and its halves sink. She rushes into her coach, fearful that the entire city is now alert to her use of saidar.





Chapter 31. Mashiara.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev is on a boat in Ebou Dar on her way to meet with Nesta din Reas Two Moons when she feels a flash of saidar. Suddenly she is in the water, her ship sinking. She is trapped in the cabin, on the bottom of the river with only a small air pocket and the door blocked by mud. She tries to make herself angry so she can channel, but she is too fearful. She surrenders knowing she will die, gives up hope, gives up seeing LAN, and as she loses consciousness she finally surrenders completely for the first time in her entire life. Saidar rushes into her and she bursts the cabin apart, drifts upwards, and weakly tries to swim towards the surface. Just before she thinks she is going to drown, she is plucked from the water by someone and pulled onto the deck of another ship. She vomits water, lunch, and breakfast. She hears LAN's voice and thinks herself dead. Completely embarrassed, she embraces saidar to dry herself, flush away her vomit, and turns to truly see LAN on the deck of a ship.  

They embrace and LAN eventually explains that Myrelle currently holds his bond. Nine'eev beats him in frustration. He attempts to explain the suicidal depression that consumes Warders when the bond is broken and why he was bonded to Myrelle. Thinking he'll die soon, he is glad Nine'eev would be spared the pain of the bond saying, "My last gift to you, Mashiara." which means his lost love. Nine'eev, stubborn as ever, refuses and instead resolves to make him her warder, heal him, and marry him immediately. LAN reminds her that Myrelle can feel everything through the bond until it is passed on, including the activities between a man and his wife. When Nine'eev asks if Myrelle can be made to know the woman is her, LAN bursts out laughing. LAN wants to take her back to shore but she insists on continuing on to Windrunner, the ship of the Sea Folk. He tells her that he saw the ship sliced in half with balefire and Nine'eev suspects Moghedien. LAN promised to protect her when she's not angry enough to channel. Finally, she notices she is not angry, yet still holds saidar. Her block is gone. As she thinks about the wedding and meeting Nesta on Windrunner, she realizes she is still seasick.

Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne leads Merilille, Adeleas, and the Salidar Eyes Sedai to surprise the Kin at their home. Reanne initially berates Elayne for returning but she and the other Kin present immediately quiet when the rest of the Eyes Sedai enter. She presents herself to Merilille, thinking she is the Eyes Sedai in charge, and begs forgiveness for not turning in Elayne to them for posing as a Sister, but she is quieted and told that Elayne is not only an Eyes Sedai but she is in charge of their group. Elayne is very satisfied when Reanne  and the other Kin learn that she is a full Sister. Elayne tells the Kin they are free to return to their training in the Tower, and have the potential to become full Eyes Sedai, but they will not be forced to do so. The Kin are surprised, grateful, and tearful. Reanne reveals that there are 1,783 women on the rolls of the Kin. Reanne also states that she is 412 years old, and Merilille faints.

Mat arrives and states he followed a member of the Kin to a house in the Rahad, where the Bowl of the Winds likely is. Elayne states that they already know (which is not precisely true, although Reanne was about to reveal its location) but thanks him anyway.





Chapter 32. Sealed to the Flame.



Point of view: Elaida.

Elaida dreams that she is bringing the rebellious Eyes Sedai to heel, stilling some and birching others. Alviarin wakes her with news from Dumai's Wells. Covarla is the highest ranking sister to return alive, and informs them of the appearance of hordes of Wise Ones (Eye’eel wilders) and hundreds of Asha'man, the White Tower Eyes Sedai's defeat, and Rand's escape. Only 12 of 39 Eyes Sedai have returned to the White Tower from the battle. After Covarla is dismissed, Elaida wishes to resume the offensive at once, but Alviarin reminds her of the Asha’man numbers and of Toevienne's mission to destroy the Black Tower. Elaida commands her to immediately order Toevienne and the other Sisters back, but Alviarin tells her that they have no means of warning her in time. She then tells Elaida that she will suffer Sewan Sawnchay's fate if the rest of the Tower learns of her catastrophic failures, and that she must follow Alviarin's orders henceforth.

Alviarin proceeds to dictate the first few orders Elaida should give. The first is to increase the Tower Guard, something Elaida had previously decided against. The second and third are to order searches of the quarters of two sisters while holding up three others as models of upholding the law. Those subjected to searches, according to Alviarin, broke minor infractions regarding angreal; Josaine for not turning in one she had found, and Adelorna Bastine for removing one from the storerooms without the proper permissions. Elaida forsees that this will cause friction with a clear implication that the latter three informed on the others.

Elaida starts thinking about how she can get rid of Alviarin without repercussions to herself. 

Point of view: Alviarin Freidhen.

Alviarin leaves Elaida's chambers, realizing that events are moving inexorably towards Elaida's deposition, and perhaps her own ascendance to the seven-striped stole. However, she does not know Mesaana's plans as yet.

Point of view: Seaine Herimon.

Elaida approaches Seaine Herimon in her Sitter's quarters, instructing her to seek out treason in the Tower and report only to her. After Elaida departs, Seaine concludes that she must have been speaking about the Black Ajah. She breaks her oath to Elaida and tells her best friend, Red Sitter Pevara Tazanovni, about the inquiry and they agree to help one another. She notices a lot of discord between the Ajahs. She chose Pevara because her family was murdered by Darkfriends and because of that Pevara has been relentless in seeking out Darkfriends.





Chapter 33. A Bath.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.






It has been days since Rand sent Pairin away to Ghealdan. He is ashamed of the passion he and Min shared—he believes he raped her. He is chronically tempted to touch the Choedan Kal access ter'angreal he's hidden away, but refrains from doing so. Dreams plague his sleep covering many different topics. Min comes in (against Rand's orders), and tells of an urgent viewing: he needs Cadsuane around him, just like Sewan needs Gareth Bryne around her. She also tells him about yet another viewing: "I saw you and another man. I couldn't make out either face, but I knew one was you. You touched, and seemed to merge into one another, and…one of you dies, and one doesn't." Rand takes this to mean that he and Lews Therin will eventually merge and that Lews Therin will be the one to die.

Min insists that Rand needs a bath, and the Maidens help. Rand apologizes for being "a monster" when they slept together. Min informs him that it wasn't rape, it was two friends "comforting" each other. Rand admits to loving Min, Aviendha, and Elayne. Min tells Rand that she loves him, too, and so do Elayne and Aviendha. She tells him that he cannot send her away for her own protection and that he needs to deal with the Sea Folk. He promises to do so that very day.





Chapter 34. Ta'veren.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.






Rand has a group gathered to visit the Sea Folk ship in the harbor. The Asha'man Dashiva, Flinn, and Narishma along with Min, Dobraine, and some armsmen. Alanna, Bera, Rafela, Faeldrin Harella, and Merana are Eyes Sedai that are going with him. Min has a viewing of all five in Rand's hand, which means that they will keep their word to Rand. Later, blushes as she talks with Alanna, learning about the bond Alanna has with Rand and what that allows her to sense. Min briefs him on the Sea Folk and their prophecy, information she received from Berelain.

When Rand nears the ship he makes a ramp of air and walks up the slope to the deck of the Sea Folk ship. He is greeted by Harine din Togara Two Winds, identifies himself as the Coramoor, and asks permission to board. Harine grants him permission and recognizes him as the Coramoor. She then seems dismayed to have done so. Min, Dashiva, Merana, and Rafela join Rand in the cabin for the conference with the Sea Folk. Rand begins to bully Harine into agreeing that the Sea Folk must serve him. To show that he is not under the control of the Eyes Sedai, he commands Merana and Rafela to come kneel on the floor next to him. Not only do they come kneel next to him, but they also kiss his hands. His tahveeren effect is in full force and Harine says things she clearly did not plan on saying. Harine eventually agrees that the Sea Folk will serve the Coramoor. Min tells her that she will be punished for this (though less harshly than she thinks) and that eventually she will become Mistress of the Ships. 

Harine then admits that Sea Folk ships that venture too far to the West never return; Rand suspects the Shawn'chin. Because of how Rand was treated by the White Tower Eyes Sedai he starts to feel claustrophobic in the small cabin and he suddenly needs to leave. He assigns Merana to conclude the negotiations. He decides that with his tahveeren effect working so well he should also try to settle the problem of the Cairhienin and Tairen rebels that are camped outside the city.





Chapter 35. Into the Woods.






Point of view: Min Farshaw.

Min sees the recurring image of a vast shadow swallowing many fireflies which represents Rand's battle with the Shadow. She reflects with sadness that a viewing showed that Mworane was critical to his winning the Last Battle, but she is dead. She has withheld his viewing from Rand. Rand has resolved to visit the rebels, taking only Min even though she recommends taking at least the Asha'man. Rand makes a Gateway and they arrive in an area of light forest.

Caraline Dawmodred rides in and recognizes him immediately. She complains about the bad things that happen when Rand is around but Min says there is a balance, with as much good as bad. Darlin Sisnera rides up then with several other riders. Caraline introduces Rand and Min as her distant cousin, Tomas, a minor member of House Trakand, and his wife Jaisi. Darlin wishes to marry Caraline and Min has a viewing that he will get his wish (but not until after a long chase) and become a king also. 

They return to camp and find several Eyes Sedai are also there. Min has another viewing and warns Caraline that Dahveed Hanlon is not to be trusted—he will be responsible for many rapes and murders still to come. Toram Riatin and Padan Fain, going by the name Jeraal Mordeth, are in the tent also. Rand tells Caraline that Fain has a price on his head and before he can act, Cadsuane Melaidhrin approaches, asking for an introduction to Caraline's "cousins". She expresses displeasure to find Rand there.  Toram approaches them and claims Caraline will be his wife but she says she will never be his wife. Toram challenges Rand to duel with practice blades and, despite Min's objections, Rand agrees.





Chapter 36. Blades.






Point of view: Min Farshaw.

Rand has agreed to fight Toram Riatin with practice swords at the Cairhienin rebels camp. Rand easily defends himself against Toram's attacks until a scream from outside startles Rand and breaks his concentration. The tent is snatched away in the same moment and they see that they are surrounded by fog.  Toram uses the distraction to hit Rand in the side and plans to kill him until he sees something in the fog snatch one of the Red sisters away. Everyone begins to scatter and run from the tent but some, including Rand, Min, Toram, and Cadsuane, form a defensive group to try to escape the fog. Rand channels balefire to help a fleeing woman which allows Toram to recognize him. Toram leaves the group accusing Rand of causing the fog. Cadsuane slaps Rand and tells him he is never to use balefire. Padan Fain comes out of the fog and slices Rand in the side with the ruby-hilted dagger. The wound is in the same place as the half-healed scar Rand received at Fal'meh. Rand collapses and Samitsu heals him but it is not fully effective. Samitsu believes he will still eventually die but Cadsuane will not give up. Samitsu says that the old wound and the new contain two different types of evil. 

Darlin Sisnera carries Rand while the Eyes Sedai continue to protect the party as they move through the fog. At last they escape from it and begin the journey back to Kai'rienne. They stop a turnip cart and Cadsuane pays the owner, Ander Tol, for the use of the cart. The Eyes Sedai unload the turnips using the One Power, then head for the Sun Palace as fast as possible. Cadsuane wants to carry Rand to Lady Arilyn's palace but Min is emphatic that Rand must not wake up in a strange place surrounded by Eyes Sedai again. Cadsuane begins to question Min about Rand's kidnapping by the Tower Eyes Sedai. Samitsu and Niande sick up when they learn that Rand stilled three sisters. When they reach the Sun Palace Rand is put to bed and others begin to gather including Bera and Kiruna. Dashiva comes in and orders Flinn to see if he can heal Rand. Flinn says that the old wound and the new contain two different types of darkness. Despite the objections of the Eyes Sedai, Flinn begins. He chatters about his life story while he works. Eventually Flinn manages to seal the two wounds away from Rand so they will war against each other and subsequently cannot affect him for a while. Samitsu demands and begs, at the same time, that he explain to her how he did that.





Chapter 37. A Note from the Palace.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.






Mat hurries out of the palace, still finishing dressing after being dragged to Queen Tylin's rooms last night by serving women. Six coaches are ready to leave for the Rahad to get the ter'angreal stash. Nalesean, Vanin, and the other Redarms are ready to go. Elayne is there with some of the Kin, discussing their ages which are lengthier than any Eyes Sedai. Elayne and Mat begin to argue about how soon they can leave Ebou Dar. Mat wants to be gone yesterday while Elayne wants to stay until they have used the Bowl to fix the weather. 

Nine'eev arrives with LAN. Even though she is the reason they're late, she immediately begins rushing everyone to get moving. Mat peppers LAN with questions until he informs Mat that he is now married to Nine'eev and that the Sea Folk have unusual marriage customs. LAN tells Mat that two of his Redarms were killed with balefire yesterday by Moghedien and that she might still be around. Mat reads a letter Tylin sent with a basket which asks him about the Daughter of the Nine Moons and informs him that she is moving his things in to her room. Mat is almost ready to cry.





Chapter 38. Six Stories.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat, Elayne, Nine'eev, the Kin, the Redarms, and Beslan head for the river on their way to house with the ter'angreal stash in the Rahad. Mat overhears hints regarding an arrangement between LAN and Nyneave as a result of being married by the Sea Folk having to do with being in public versus in private. Elayne realizes what the flowers in the basket imply and accuses Mat of forcing himself on Tylin. Mat defends himself saying he didn't have any say in the matter, that she has forced herself on him. Elayne responds with barely contained amusement. Despite his humiliation, Mat shocks Elayne with the selfless offer of his Silver foxhead medallion as protection against Moghedien. She reluctantly refuses the ter'angreal. To top everything off, the dice are still spinning in his head. 

After crossing the river they move through the Rahad to the house, which is six stories tall. Mat orders Harnan and some others to find the back entrance and guard it while Elayne claims there is no need for that. Elayne, Reanne, and most of the Kin head up the stairs while the others wait with Nine'eev.

While they are waiting, Falion Bhoda and Ispan Shefar come in the door behind them and shield Nine'eev. LAN crashes into the two Black sisters, which starts a fight between the Redarms and the Darkfriends that accompanied Falion and Ispan. Nine'eev tells Mat there is channeling upstairs so he goes up to help Elayne. The women are all unconscious or dead and a strange man seems to be the cause. Mat attacks and finds the man is faster than a Myrddraal. Nalesean arrives and is quickly killed. Mat stabs the man several times but it has no effect. As they struggle on the floor, Mat's medallion touches the man's cheek and it screams. Mat uses the medallion as a weapon to drive the creature off into another room. When Mat enters the room the creature is gone and there weren't any openings larger than a rat hole.

Elayne recovers and says that channeling had no effect on the creature. Nine'eev arrives and begins Healing those not already dead. Elayne heads in to the room where the Bowl of the Winds should be and begins searching while Mat tallies the dead, ending with a count of two dead Wise Women and six dead Redarms along with Nalesean. Elayne can be heard cursing in the other room, but finally shouts that she has found it and brings the bowl into the room to show those remaining.





Chapter 39. Promises to Keep.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.






After finding the Bowl of the Winds, the group has returned to the palace and are gathered in a room provided them by Queen Tylin, who with Elayne and Nine'eev flanking her on either side, listens passively as Matrim Cauthon, with his fear of the gholam, tries to convince them to leave. He marvels that both Eyes Sedai look as if they have bathed and changed clothes after wallowing in the dust of that closet where the Bowl had been found, though he notes that they haven't been out of his sight for more than a few minutes at any given time. He is still covered from head to foot in muck. All three women look regal and formidable.

Merilille protests that she has never heard of a shadowspawn called a "gholam" and asks the same of the four other Eyes Sedai in the room with her: Adeleas, Vandene, Sareitha, and Careane. Mat would feel crowded in this room if only Tylin were in it, but with all seven Eyes Sedai and Tylin… He notes that the other five are now meek when dealing with Nine'eev and Elayne, but he still doesn't understand. Elayne and Nine'eev know about the gholam, yet do nothing as the five treat Mat as a hairy-eared lout who needs to be kicked and are ready to do the kicking.

Mat protests that he, Elayne, Nine'eev, and the five Wise Women present in the room saw the thing and demands that they be questioned. The Wise Women just huddle in fear, all but Sumeko, who has obviously had a conversation with Nine'eev on their way back to the palace and the new attitude toward the Eyes Sedai shows up in her posture.

Renaile din Calon Blue Star, Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships speaks up, saying that no one denies his word, just that she does not like leaving the water without good cause, and she questions the danger, to which Merilille quickly agrees. Mat notes the twenty additional Sea Folk who stand behind her chair. He notes that though Sea Folk are respectful toward Eyes Sedai they are also smug. His Memories tell him little about the Atha'an Miere, but they tell him some: that every Wavemistress and Master of the Blades starts out as a lowly deck hand on some ship, and that they are sticklers for rank, which he then proceeds to analyze as regards the members of the Sea Folk present.

Mat attempts a history lesson concerning the gholam, how they were created during the War of Power, how they were designed to assassinate Eyes Sedai, how the Power won't touch them, how a gholam can sense channeling, how they are very strong, how they can squeeze through cracks because they have no bones. He notes that only six were ever made; three males and three females. Then he discusses the one in Ebou Dar, how it was probably kept since the Breaking in a stasis box, how it was sent by the Forsaken, probably to assassinate Elayne and Nine'eev, and to retrieve the Bowl of the Winds. Of the latter he gets a very minor response, mostly a wave to continue his little précis.

He does so by explaining that whoever sent the gholam knows that the Bowl is here in the Tarasin Palace and that if he or she sends the gholam here, many of them are going to die; he cannot protect every one of them all at once. And the gholam will probably get the Bowl. He drops the name of Falion Bhoda and points out that the Black Ajah are also out there. To no surprise, the Wise women become indignant at the mention of the Black Ajah as do the five Eyes Sedai, but Mat realizes there isn't a lot he can do except press on. Which is why he ends his speech by demanding of them, "Now do you see why you need to take the Bowl somewhere the gholam doesn't know about?" 

Renaile, the Sea Folk leader, refuses to believe Mat, throwing doubt upon his words and very nearly calling him a liar. Mat looks to Elayne and Nine'eev who sit silently, not adding one word of support. He does not look to Birgitte at all, who is the source of his information about gholam and stasis boxes—he doesn't want to reveal her secret. Mat begins by explaining that he read a book, but is viciously cut off by Renaile once more, disdaining a book not known by Eyes Sedai. Mat suddenly realizes he is the only man in the room, all others having been sent off to perform errands. He wonders once again why neither Elayne nor Nine'eev does not speak up in his defense. He examines the women in the room and suddenly suspects that he has been handling this the wrong way. He walks toward the Sea Folk in a manner that makes a couple of Eyes Sedai sniff and whisper "such insolence!" He doesn't care. He suddenly knows he is being used, and he hates the feeling.

Stopping in front of Renaille he looks at the faces behind, before studying her, which obviously causes her discomfort. Starting a new monologue, he says in essence, "You can all channel and I don't particularly care." Renaile begins a protest to Nine'eev that listening to Mat was not part of their bargain, but Mat viciously cuts her off by calling her "daughter of sands" which is a very grave insult among the Sea Folk. Renaile reacts as expected, pulling out a blade. Mat snatches it from her and shoves her back into her seat before she can react, then insults the Sea Folk some more. Finally he declares, "I am the Master of the Blades and my blade is bared" (which makes him senior, even if temporarily), and then tells them straightaway that they will go where Elayne and Nine'eev say or he will tie them up and haul them there anyway slung across the backs of pack horses. Somehow that works. Renaile agrees grudgingly, and her response surprises her people. Mat and the Windmistress strike a bargain and Mat gives Renaile back her knife. Renaile says calmly that she suspects that she has just made a bargain with a tahveeren but promises Mat that someday if it pleases the Light, he will walk a rope for her. Mat agrees that all things are possible if it pleases the Light. That ends the discussion and Mat suggests that they choose a place far away from there and remove to it with the Bowl.

Discussion of their destination follows, but it is Reanne from the Kin who suggests the Kin's farm a few miles away that is finally, quickly accepted by Nine'eev and Elayne. Mat reasons out that the farm had been decided as the group's destination before the debate even began. As everyone files out to get ready for the move, Mat calls Elayne and Nine'eev over. Before he can open his mouth, Elayne apologizes for using Mat, but promises there was a reason, and Nine'eev chimes in with, "which you do not need to know."

As they all leave they all see Tylin pinching Mat on the bottom, with various levels of approval or disapproval. Tylin compliments him on how he handled Renaile, in such a style that Mat blushes. She then pronounces that she will miss him. He mutters a similar sentiment and realizes that he means it. He demands however, that on his return he'll do the chasing, but she disabuses him of the likelihood. He leaves her presence on unsteady feet tucking his shirt back into his trousers and noticing that everyone else is already gone.

He finds Thom, Jeweleen, Nerim, and Lopin as they are making their exit from Tylin's quarters, loaded with his belongings. Thom flips a ring he found on Mat's pillow surrounded by flowers and loversknots on both pillows, calling it a parting gift. Mat angrily reminds Thom that he bought it with his own money while he jams it on his finger, but that doesn't stop the mirth in both Jeweleen and Thom. He informs them all that he will be on his way as soon as he can grab Olver and he hopes they have grabbed their own things. Lopin pleads to stay behind to see his master, Nalesean, decently buried. Mat gently advises that if Lopin stays it might be for a long time and then offers to take him on as his manservant. Lopin readily assents.

They head toward his quarters to find Riselle there, but no Olver. She explains that she let Olver go after he read his pages and did his numbers. He will be back by sunset, she says he promised and she reminds Mat that Olver is good at keeping his promises. Mat dashes to the rooms where Nine'eev and Elayne are staying to find all assembled and ready to move. Nine'eev agrees testily that Mat must go after Olver, and then as if a dam breaks all of them offer to help find the boy, from LAN to Birgitte and back again. He replies that the Bowl is too important.

The dice thunder in his head.

He turns to LAN and orders him to keep them safe. Startling Mat, Aviendha promises that they will, not understanding that she is in the group to be kept safe. The other warders comprehend, however and promise.

As Mat turns to leave, Nine'eev tells him that the storm is about to break and that he should take care of himself. And though he muses about what Nine'eev means, ultimately he shrugs it off. Meeting with his Redarms he explains the strategy to find Olver as quickly as possible. They nod their agreement and in that moment Mat has an epiphany; he suddenly feels responsible for the men gathered in front of him. Telling them to look sharp, that there's a storm coming (and in the process surprises himself), they disperse.

Standing in the Mol Hara Square, he notes that there is no sign of a storm. Then he moves, looking for Olver. Asking dozens of people if they have seen him, they respond with a negative after filling his head with some of the most outlandish rumors ever spilled. Mat keeps searching. A few streets from the river he hears thunder. He gets to the quay and determines that Olver is not likely to be there. Then he notices something peculiar; no one is moving. Ship's crew have mounted masts to look toward the bay where big thick columns of black smoke billow. He makes his way to the end of a dock and looks out. At least two dozen ships are burning. Several more have already settled. He watches as an Altaran ship gets blown apart. He notes that most ships are trying to depart; some upriver, some out to sea. His breath catches as he notices a ship with square, ribbed sails and recognizes it for a Shawn'chin vessel. Then he notices winged beasts with passengers, flying over the city, blasting here and there. Desperate, he begins calling Olver's name, to no avail.

He finds himself running against the traffic and soon determines why—a column of Shawn'chin march by. Thinking he sees Olver at its tail end, he follows it for a bit until he finds out that the red he saw was a little girl's dress. He continues in his wild meanderings until he sees ahead a sul'dam with her damane. He also sees a small resistance forming. Mat immediately understands that the resistance is going to get decimated by the sul'dam/damane pair. The sul'dam points and Mat's foxhead medallion cools. The ground underneath the resistance erupts and Mat is knocked on his back. The devastation from the explosion is incredible. The Ebou Dari resistance starts running in any direction other than where the Shawn'chin stand. Mat agrees to the soundness of the idea and starts running himself, staying close to the wall of the alley down which he runs, hoping that the sul'dam does not think him a soldier.

The sul'dam, however, strikes a second time and a second time he is flung to the ground. The masonry bulges outward. Mat shouts, "what happened to my bloody luck?" as the wall comes tumbling down upon him. Before it takes him, he realizes also, that the dice have stopped rattling.





Chapter 40. Spears.






Point of view: Galina Casban.

Galina is captive of the Shaido Eye’eel. She has been the head of the Red Ajah for nearly twenty years and in the Black Ajah for over eighty years. She is exhausted from running with bare feet and her hands tied behind her. A very weak Wise One holds her shield. Her punishments have been severe for the two times she tried to escape and she plans to wait until she is sure of success before trying again. They meet up with Sevanna at a camp in Kinslayer's Dagger. Sevana declares her da'tsang, forced to wear a black robe which absorbs the suns heat.

Point of view: Sevanna.

Sevanna wishes to break Galina so she will channel at her order since she cannot channel herself. Caddar arrives and brings an oath rod which can be used to make oaths binding. Caddar has brought what he claims are travelling boxes so the Eye’eel can move to another area. He also claims that Rand's Eye’eel could be here soon so they should leave immediately.

Point of view: Maeric.

Maeric is travelling to a new area with the help of Caddar. He is using a different Gateway than Sevanna and most of the Wise Ones. He hopes to go to Roy'deonne soon to become the Shaido clan chief. Suddenly the Gateway closes cutting a number of Eye’eel in to pieces. He finds himself in a trap with other Eye’eel and wetlanders on horses nearby moving to attack.

Point of view: Graendal.

Graendal comments to Sammael about calling the call boxes a "fool box" even though it was in the Old Tongue. They each return to their own palaces.

Point of view: Shaidar Haran.

Shaidar Haran was spying on Sammael and Graendal and wonders if they are sowing chaos as they should or if they have some other plan. He feels weak and must return to Shay'ole Ghoul soon.





Chapter 41. A Crown of Swords.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is dreaming of Elayne, Aviendha, and Min, that they look at him with scorn but then wakes up with Min's arms around him. Amys, Bera, and Kiruna are one faction, Cadsuane and some of her Eyes Sedai are another, and both are faced off against some of the Asha'man who are holding siedeen. Rand has been unconscious for two days. Rand asks all of the women to leave except Min.

Adley gives his report of the fight at the palisaded forts that guard Illian. Sammael arrived as soon as they started channeling and he is very strong in the Power. Rand plans to go after Sammael right away and Min agrees to distract the Maidens even though they will be very angry when they find him gone again without them. Rand makes a Gateway to Bashere's camp near Kaymlin, which is the strike force for taking the city of Illian. He has nine thousand Saldaean horse and fifteen thousand crossbowmen, composed primarily of men passed along by Taim. Rand makes a large Gateway to the Square of Tammuz and runs through followed by the Asha'man. As the army begins to come through Rand travels to the highest spire of the King's palace.

Rand and the Asha'man channel flows all over the city to disrupt any wards Sammael may have placed. Sammael arrives and Rand travels to meet him. Sammael challenges Rand, the makes a gateway to Shadar Logoth and Rand follows. Rand sees some movement and follows, doubtful that it would be Sammael. Darkness falls and Mashadar, the evil of Shadar Logoth, begins to flow from some of the windows. Trollocs begin to appear and Liah, who Rand thought was lost some time ago, leaps down to attack them. Liah flees when she recognizes him. He encounters a Myrddraal and some Trollocs and channels a sword of fire to deal with them. Sammael attacks then with lightning bolts. The floor beneath him gives way and he barely catches himself on a ledge. A strange man, dressed in black, extends a helping hand saying he doesn't choose to see Rand die today.

As Rand reaches the ledge, he sees a large tendril of Mashadar descending toward them and channels balefire, and the other man does the same. The two bars intersect and both men are jarred; Rand starts seeing double. Lightning bolts from Sammael come again as they run away. The other man leaves Rand, giving him some advice on Sammael's behaviour, and Rand realizes he didn't feel the man channeling when he created balefire. Rand climbs to the top of a tower overlooking the Waygate, where he expects Sammael to be waiting. Rand spots Sammael and then sees Mashadar descending toward him. As Rand begins to channel balefire to kill Sammael Rand hears a scream. He looks around and sees Liah being touched by Mashadar. Rand changes target to mercifully kill Liah instead. When he turns his gaze toward Sammael there is only a lake of Mashadar, so he assumes that Sammael is dead.

Rand returns to the King's palace in Illian where Bashere, the Asha'man, and the Illian Council await. Gregorin den Lushenos and the Council offer Rand the Laurel Crown as the new King of Illian. They reveal they choose to follow him because of the grain he had Tear send to Illian even when both countries were preparing for war against the other.

The Council members chant "The Light illumine Rand al'Thor, King of Illian".

Point of view: Omni.

Stories and rumors fly, some more fantastic than others. But one rumor is constant, that the Laurel Crown of Illian is now called the Crown of Swords.





