Chapter 0. Deceptive Appearances.






Point of view: Ethenielle Kirukon Materasu.


The rulers of Kandor, Arafel, Shynarr, and Saldaea met to perform a ceremony that had been recorded only seven times in all the years since the Breaking. This agreement would commit them beyond words. While they were meeting, Queen Tenobia of Saldaea tries to set up a romance between Queen Ethenielle, of Kandor, and Tenobia's uncle, Kalyan Ramsin. Between the four of them, they have brought thirteen Eyes Sedai with them. Each ruler slashes their hand and they grip their hands together. They give an oath that they are all one to the death. Next they need to find al'Thor to do what needs doing.

Point of view: Verin Mathwin.

Verin is in the Eye’eel camp, getting information from the Eyes Sedai that are being held prisoner. She has been given permission by the Wise Ones to question them. She only wants to interrogate Sisters without warders. Verin has a small lily brooch angreal that she's kept for forty years. It has been seventy-one years since Verin's last major mistake. Once Beldeine Nyram enters the tent, Verin uses a modified weave of Compulsion on her that she pieced together by interrogating wilders. This weave encourages Beldeine to look inside herself to find a reason to accept Verin's instructions. Verin had wanted to interrogate Katerine Alruddin, but Katerine escaped from the Eye’eel the night before and killed three people to do it, thus proving herself as Black Ajah. Verin is determined to keep Rand alive until it is time for him to die.

Point of view: Moridin.

Moridin is sitting in a windowless, doorless room, idly playing with the two mindtraps hung around his neck. He is attended by a beautiful young man with vacant eyes. Moridin is focused on the game he is playing, sha'rah, a modified version of the game now called stones. Everything in sha'rah revolves around a piece called the Fisher, which has a blindfold and a bandaged side. Moridin suspects that it is based on an ancient legend about al'Thor. Moridin is allowed to use the True Power and has flecks of saa flowing through his eyes. He starts laughing when he realizes that he can't lose because he is playing both sides of the board.





Chapter 1. To Keep the Bargain.






Point of view: Narrator.

A wind rises in Tremalking where the Amayar farm for the Sea Folk. The wind continues over the Sea of Storms where fishermen see a great fleet bearing the Shawn'chin banner. Onward the wind blows to Ebou Dar where many Sea Folk vessels wait for word of the Coramoor, their Chosen One.

Point of view: Aviendha.

Aviendha worries about Olver, who is playing in the streets and may not be present for the move to the Kin retreat. Nine'eev is arguing with LAN about his promise to protect her. Aviendha nearly runs into Teslyn Baradon, former Sitter of the Red Ajah, as they round a corner. Teslyn promises to not interfere with Elayne's plans even though she doesn't know what they are. Nine'eev tells Teslyn of the gholam, Moghedien, the Black Ajah, and the storm that is coming to Ebou Dar, but Teslyn dismisses all of it as nonsense. Twenty Sea Folk Windfinders, lead by Renaile din Calon Blue Star, wait in the largest stable yard of the Palace. Nine'eev and Elayne go to make sure the other Eyes Sedai and the Kin are ready.

Reanne and the Kin are unhappy that they are still in charge of guarding captive Black Sister, Ispan Shefar, but Nine'eev won't assign the duty to the other Eyes Sedai. The Kin and the Sea Folk begin to bicker until Nine'eev intervenes. Elayne asks Aviendha to open the Gateway so they can leave Ebou Dar. The warders move through to scout, followed by the rest of the large group. Feeling watched, Aviendha looks around and sees a man observing from a building high above. She fears he may be the gholam.





Chapter 2. Unweaving.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne watches the Windfinders as they come through Aviendha's Gateway, judging their strength in the Power. Most are not that strong, but three of the youngest are very strong, one as strong as Nine'eev. Horses bring through what was found in the Kin storeroom and Elayne begins sorting to get rid of the junk and see if she can find anything useful. The Windfinders have trouble mounting their horses since they have never ridden before. The Warders return from scouting and indicate that there is no danger nearby. Elayne finds a small amber turtle brooch angreal and several ter'angreal:



a blue stone root-like carving
a small ivory box with red and green stripes
a flexible black rod (which Nine'eev says feels like pain)
a tiny crystal vial filled with dark red liquid
a two-foot bronze statue of a jolly bearded man holding a book


Vandene warns Elayne to stop messing with unknown objects of the Power: twenty-five years ago an Eyes Sedai named Martine Janata burned herself out doing just that.  

Suddenly, Merilille shrieks, startling everyone. Elayne sees that Aviendha has come through the Gateway and is in the process of Unweaving it; a dangerous, nearly impossible, task. Aviendha's reasoning is that the residue could be read by one of the Forsaken on their tails, if they possess the talent for it, which Aviendha also possesses.  Vandene and the other Eyes Sedai try to bully Aviendha but she stands up to them and mocks their inability to do what she can.  

Nine'eev gets everyone moving toward the farm while Aviendha privately tells Elayne that the man she saw watching frightened her. Elayne thinks Aviendha would never admit this to anyone else. 

Point of view: Moridin.

As Moridin watches the party depart, he is frustrated because he doesn't understand how Aviendha was able to make the Gateway disappear completely without any residue. He angrily reflects on other skills the people of this time had discovered that no one in his own Age had dreamed of: a way to Heal severing, the Warder bond, and now Unweaving. 

A servant, Madic, approaches to report the rumors of what the party took with them, including a ter'angreal that could fix the weather, called the Bowl of the Winds. Rage surges through Moridin—the Great Lord strained to fix the seasons in place, and will be very displeased if that is changed. Moridin realizes that he has inadvertently killed Madic in his anger and use of the True Power, but no matter. He must find the women before they can use the Bowl of the Winds or meddle with any of his carefully laid plans.

Point of view: a gholam' .

The gholam smells blood and finds the corpse of Madic. He begins to feed while planning to follow the women. He can feel where they Traveled to.





Chapter 3. A Pleasant Ride.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne and Aviendha are traveling to the Farm with the Eyes Sedai, the Windfinders and the Kin with various attendants assisting. Adeleas presses Elayne to somehow rein in the Windfinders because of the bargain that was made to receive help using the Bowl of the Winds. Among other things, twenty Eyes Sedai are to be assigned to the Sea Folk to teach whatever they wish to learn. Elayne gives Aviendha permission to discipline a Windfinder that did not pass on a warning message to Elayne. The Kin pester Elayne, trying to get out of responsibility for Ispan and the Eyes Sedai are equally persistent about seeking that same responsibility.

Nine'eev sticks to LAN as he scouts the countryside instead of helping Elayne manage the group. Elayne plans to head for Kaymlin once the Bowl of the Winds has been used.





Chapter 4. A Quiet Place.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne and the group from Ebou Dar arrive at the Farm. Alise arrives to meet them but notices that Careane did not pull her hood up far enough. Other women on the farm notice and a cry goes up that it is Eyes Sedai and the women begin to scatter in a panic. Alise is upset with Reanne, believing that she betrayed the Kin. Reanne explains that the Eyes Sedai have always known about the Kin and now they are given the option to go back to the White Tower. Nine'eev sends the warders to round up the fleeing women. Adeleas and Vandene link and take Ispan to a small side building to begin questioning, which angers Elayne since they did not ask permission. Ispan is defiant, claiming to have orders from Elaida. Aviendha threatens her but Adeleas says shedding blood during questioning is forbidden. Elayne is willing to get answers however she must from Ispan, but Vandene takes her outside and convinces her that they know the best way to proceed.

Meanwhile the scattered Kin and residents on the farm are being gathered up and settled. Elayne and Aviendha resume searching the storeroom stash. Two more angreal are found, a gold bracelet and rings and a seated woman in age-darkened ivory. Nine'eev arrives and tells Elayne that it is time to use the Bowl of the Winds.





Chapter 5. The Breaking Storm.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

All of the strongest channelers among the Eyes Sedai, the Kin, and the Windfinders climb up to the highest hill surrounding the Farm. Nine'eev is impatient to be done using the Bowl of the Winds so they can give it to the Sea Folk and part ways. Aviendha tells Elayne that she has failed her because she can't make a large Gateway, doesn't know how to question Ispan, and failed to keep the Windfinders cowed. Aviendha seems to be contemplating throwing herself from the cliff she is standing next to. Elayne admits that she would not have been able to do the questioning either.

Nine'eev has been trying to get things organized, then tells Elayne that LAN has her acting foolish and Elayne should straighten her out in the future. Nine'eev even apologizes, which floors Elayne. Renaile begins to order the Windfinders to their posts and gives command of the circle to Caire din Gelyn Running Wave. Caire orders Nine'eev to demonstrate how to link. Nine'eev demonstrates with Elayne. An angry Renaile interrupts, believing women could be forced into a circle against their will but Sareitha explains that the link can only be made voluntarily. Nine'eev passes the link to Elayne who then brings in the rest to form a full circle of thirteen. Elayne passes control of the circle to Caire who roughly seizes control and then begins channeling. She creates a four-point star and lays it on top of the bowl. A column of saidar shoots up into the air. Elayne also realizes that the Bowl itself is drawing siedeen, even though it can't be seen by a woman. Then a spider-web of flows blossoms from the top of the column spreading across the sky. Finally Caire declares it is done and releases the source, again abruptly.

After they finish they begin to sense massive amounts of saidar being used, but far away toward Ebou Dar. Lightning flashes but there are no clouds so they suspect it might be the Forsaken. One of the Kin shouts, 'Shadowspawn!' and women begin tossing fireballs at a flying creature, then spot another. Elayne and Nine'eev recognize the flying creature as a raken and realize that it is the Shawn'chin that must be channeling in Ebou Dar. Elayne orders everyone to head for the Farm so they can prepare to leave before the Shawn'chin arrive.





Chapter 6. Threads.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Using the Bowl of the Winds has let the Shawn'chin know where there are some channelers so everyone at the Farm has to leave as quickly as possible. Elayne has decided to head for Andor so she can claim her throne. Elayne is very satisfied that she is leading and everyone else is following. There are one hundred and forty-seven Kin at the Farm plus some other women and everyone that Elayne brought from Ebou Dar. Alise has had everyone getting ready to leave based on information Birgitte was able to give her.

Elayne makes a gateway to a manor two weeks travel from Kaymlin but it is also very isolated from other villages. Finally everyone is through and Elayne asks Nine'eev to lead everyone to the farmhouse since she plans to unweave the gateway and she doesn't know what will happen if she fails to do it right. After everyone but Birgitte and Aviendha are over the hill from the Gateway, Elayne begins the work to taking the weave apart. The Shawn'chin arrive with several damane who start to channel through the gateway. Aviendha and Birgitte defend Elayne from the soldiers that are coming through the gateway. Crossbow bolts start flying, injuring Aviendha in the arm and Birgitte in the leg. Aviendha uses her angreal and channels fireballs through the gateway preventing any Shawn'chin from coming through. Elayne tells them to flee but instead they mount Elayne backwards on her horse and gallop away from the gateway. Aviendha finally tires too much to channel and a damane comes through the gateway and shields Elayne causing a huge explosion.

They are all injured from the shock of the explosion. They slowly move up the hill to see what has happened. The whole meadow is devastated even knocking down trees on the sloped beyond. Elayne asks Aviendha to be her first sister since they both know enough about the other that there is no need to wait longer, except they will need Wise Ones for the ceremony.

Point of view: Chuleen.

Chuleen is watching for any trouble aboard her raken, listening to her partner, Eliya, chat about buying an inn with her “share of the taking gold” (plunder from the invasion). Chuleen grins because every flier talks like this, but very few really want to stop flying.

Suddenly Eliya shouts ‘The farm!!’  and something like a hard blow hits the raken, causing them to tumble from the sky. They barely pull out in time but Eliya's straps gave way during the fall and she was killed. As they climb back into the sky Chuleen sees that the farm is completely gone. She believes something has to be done about the Eyes Sedai that have such a powerful weapon available.





Chapter 7. A Goatpen.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Pairin and a small party are near Bethal in Ghealdan to meet with Queen Alliandre Maritha Kigarin based on a letter Rand received. Faile wishes to be the one to make contact and so does Berelain. Several days ago all of the channelers felt a lace of the One Power streaking high across the sky, but none of them know what it means. The Wise Ones with him wish the Eyes Sedai Seonid Traighan to go to the meeting. Pairin decides to send Berelain with Annoura which angers the others that wished to go, including Faile when Pairin attempts to apologize.

As they move away from Bethal Aram spots a disturbance at an abandoned farm some distance ahead. A group of men are attempting to set upon a smaller group including three women. Pairin, the Warders, Faile and Aram ride down while the Wise Ones channel to frighten the attackers. When the attackers scatter one of the women on a horse races out of the farmyard and Pairin chases, shouting they will not hurt them. He catches the woman's horse and another much older woman arrives calling her Maighdin. The older woman is called Lini by Maighdin, then two other men arrive and Pairin offers them protection at his camp.





Chapter 8. A Simple Country Woman.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Pairin returns to camp with Faile, Aram, Maighdin and Lini. The camp has nine hundred Winged Guards from Mayene, and several Wise Ones with an escort of Maidens. Tallanvor, Balwer and Breane are also part of Maighdin's group. Pairin also has three hundred Two Rivers men as part of his command along with the Asha'man Neald and Grady. Maighdin is upset when she sees the banners in Pairin's camp, especially the Red Eagle of Manetheren and voices her opinion. Pairin then reveals that he recognized Basel Gill and Lamgwin, asking to meet with them shortly.

As Pairin begins to question Basel, Lini interrupts and begins lecturing him, plainly trying to make sure Basel doesn't say anything to reveal that Maighdin is Morgays Trakand. One piece of news startles Pairin, that the Shawn'chin took Amador and defeated the Whitecloaks. Lini tries to convince Pairin that he should marry Maighdin and Tallanvor whether they wish to or not but he refuses.

Pairin heads to the tent he shares with Faile where she is having tea with Maighdin. Faile offers to take the whole group into her service, which causes Maighdin to choke on her tea before she decides to accept.

Point of view: Faile Bashere.

Faile slips out of bed after Pairin falls asleep to meet with her followers. Selande and some of the others have just returned from Bethal reporting that everyone is fearful of the Prophet and worried about food supplies. She gives orders for them to return to Bethal in the morning and carry out her instructions.

Point of view: Morgays Trakand.

Morgays notices Faile returning and believes her comparative youth will be an advantage. Tallanvor questions her decision to become Faile's maid. She is worried because Rand has plans to put Elayne, her daughter, on the Lion Throne and wishes to find out what other plans he may have. Tallanvor reveals his love for Morgays, which becomes possible now since Morgays renounced the throne.





Chapter 9. Tangles.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Pairin wakes to what seems to be cooler weather even though it has been much warmer than it should have been in winter. Pairin tours the camp to make sure everything is normal. The men notice that Pairin does not order the Red Wolfhead and Red Eagle banners taken down and the men are pleased. Balwer approaches Pairin and offers his services as a secretary and also to supply information. He tells Pairin the Prophet is probably in Abila.

Pairin needs to see the Wise Ones because they are treating the Eyes Sedai as apprentices, which the other groups see as wrong. He enters the tent to find all six Wise Ones present and they immediately address their concern, which is that Mahsemma must be killed. The Eye’eel dreamwalkers have seen that Mahsemma is a danger to Rand so they advocate removing him as a concern. Pairin switches to the subject of the Eyes Sedai and says they must not be beaten anymore. The Wise Ones tell him how apprentices are handled is none of his concern. Seonid who was eavesdropping is asked to come in and she pleads with Pairin to stay out of the affair. The Wise Ones tell him they are treated as apprentices and will continue to be so treated until five Wise Ones agree that they should have a higher standing.





Chapter 10. Changes.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Pairin leaves the Wise One's tent and is surprised to see Gaul bringing Elyas Machera. Elyas hopes none of the Eyes Sedai with Pairin realize he used to be a Warder. Elyas gives Pairin some advice on how to deal with Faile, which is to shout at her sometimes instead of always being meek. A birdcall sounds announcing visitors arriving. Berelain arrives with Annoura, Gallenne and another woman. He enters Berelain's tent and is introduced to Alliandre Maritha Kigarin, the Queen of Ghealdan. Alliandre tells him that Rand took Illian a few days ago and Faile whispers that Ebou Dar fell seven days ago, the same day there was channeling in the sky.

Pairin tries to press Alliandre into giving her decision on whether to support the Dragon Reborn, but she evades answering. Suddenly Alliandre kneels in front of Pairin and pledges herself to his service, not to Rand's. Faile whispers to him the pledge he should give in return as her liege lord.

Point of view: Faile Bashere.

Faile arranges for her Cha Faile retainers to watch the tent to make sure no one approaches with a warning being given to Faile. Berelain criticizes Faile for the servants she acquired and lets her know that Maighdin is actually a Wilder with a very weak ability to channel. Faile pressures Alliandre to go with Pairin when he goes south to confront the Prophet.

Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Mayener scouts bring back seven of the Prophet's men who burned a farm with the inhabitants inside. Pairin has them hung. Thunder booms overhead and it begins to rain but very briefly before the sun returns to continue baking the land.





Chapter 11. Questions and an Oath.






Point of view: Sevanna.


Sevanna is having a Shawn'chin man tortured, but he dies and Rhiale says they should used the Maidens or Black Eyes. They do not believe there are hundreds of thousands more Shawn'chin coming. They have found that Caddar has scattered the Shaido rather than sending them all to a safe place in the Wetlands. The Wise Ones all stand together against Sevanna but don't curtail her authority. The Shaido are camped at a Lord's manor with extensive outbuildings. 

Kinhuin, a Mera'din asks judgment from the Wise Ones since they are not being allowed a full share of the loot. Sevanna passes the decision to the other Wise Ones, but not before giving her opinion on what the decision should be.



Point of view: Galina Casban.


Galina is suspended in a sack over hot coals in a brazier and truly regrets having struck a Wise One. Sevanna arrives and has Galina lowered to the ground. Sevanna asks Galina if she will swear to obey her and Galina agrees. Sevanna then shows the oath rod she plans to use for swearing. Therava and a dozen Wise Ones arrive and are not happy that Sevanna plans to be the only one Galina will have to obey. Galina is terrified of Therava so she dives for the oath rod and Therava pins her hand to the ground, saying she must swear to obey all of them. Galina swears to obey all the Wise Ones present but Therava and Sevanna above the others. Therava then tells Galina she will become gai'shain. 

Therava tells Sevanna that the Wise Ones have decided Therava will be the Wise One advisor to Sevanna since she is acting as clan chief. Sevanna decides to move the clan to the east, away from the Shawn'chin. As Galina observes dark clouds begin to drop snow, although it doesn't reach the ground.





Chapter 12. New Alliances.






Point of view: Graendal.

Graendal is forging orders to Lord Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day and gives it to a messenger under her compulsion with the objective of increasing chaos. A Gateway opens and Moghedien and another woman channeler, called Cyndane come through. Cyndane says they are here on Moridin's orders and that Sammael is dead, which Graendal already knew. She does not know who Moridin is though and is told that he is Nae’bliss and that she must serve him at the Great Lord's orders. Graendal does not believe them and says so. She weaves compulsion on both women, but the story does not change. A Myrddraal appears and takes the source from Graendal and he also tells her she must obey Moridin. He is Shaidar Haran and is taller than other Myrddraal. Graendal is ordered to report to Moridin which she will do, but believes there is always a chance that she can rise to the top in the end.

Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin.

Cadsuane is looking out the coach window, watching the rain and the reaction the residents of Kai'rienne have to it. Cadsuane tasked Kumira  and Daigian to meet with some of the sisters sworn to Rand and report back. Cadsuane summons Alanna because she can tell approximately where Rand is through the Warder bond, probably in Illian. Sorilea arrives and Alanna is dismissed. After some discussion on Rand in which the two become tentative allies, Sorilea shows Cadsuane the weave for traveling. Sorilea then proposes to make water oath with Cadsuane.





Chapter 13. Floating Like Snow.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is in Illian to deal with the army Sammael raised to stop his advance. Rand proposes to talk to the soldiers himself and everyone around him objects. He does agree to take Gregorin den Lushenos and Demetre Marcolin with him. Lews Therin has been absent from Rand's head for a while now and he isn't sure if that is good or bad. He also brings Dashiva and Hopwil as he rides to meet with the Illianer army. Rand has learned the Shawn'chin have taken Amador and Ebou Dar and wonders how much time he has before he has to face them. Rand uses the power to give his terms so everyone can hear. Everyone must either lay down their arms or join his army. Rand leaves the parley and as he releases the power he sees double for a short time.





Chapter 14. The Path of Daggers/Chapter 14.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand returns to his camp after his parley with the Illianer holdouts. Damer Flinn meets Rand outside his tent and informs him that Torval has come from the Black Tower with a message from Mazrim Taim. Taim is concerned about a large number of Eyes Sedai traveling through Murandy towards Kaymlin and possibly toward the Black Tower. Rand assures him the Black Tower is not in danger and they are to leave Eyes Sedai be unless attacked. There are now four hundred and forty-eight Asha'man enrolled in the Black Tower. Fifty-one have died or been burned out, ten of whom went mad from the taint on siedeen.

Fedwin Morr arrives and tells Rand the Shawn'chin will move soon with Illian as their target. Rand begins making plans on how to stop the Shawn'chin and keep them from moving out of Ebou Dar. Morr also mentions that siedeen acted very strangely around Ebou Dar (possibly as a result the use of the Bowl of the Winds), sometimes not working the way he expected it to, and making the Taint more unpleasant. Rand recalls his visit through the stone doorway ter'angreal where he received true answers. He asked how to cleanse siedeen but the answer was more of a riddle to him and he hasn't figured out exactly what to do yet. Rand realizes he has spoken out loud and regrets others hearing about his plans. He gives orders for the troops and for the Asha'man in the Black Tower so he can begin his fight with the Shawn'chin. He gives Narishma some special orders that are not to be disclosed to anyone. Lews Therin comments on his plan and agrees they might work. Rand is glad to hear the voice again.





Chapter 15. Stronger Than Written Law.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne wakes from dreaming, recognizing some of them as significant but doesn't have a useful interpretation.



Rand wearing different masks, until suddenly one of those false faces was no longer a mask, but him
Pairin and a Tinker hacking their way through brambles with axe and sword, unaware of the cliff that lay just ahead.
Mat, weighing two Eyes Sedai on a huge set of balance scales, with something vast depending on his decision


Outside Halima is trying to keep Sewan from waking Igwayne but Sewan insists she must. The weather has turned very cold and snow blankets the ground. Sewan tells Igwayne that Gareth Bryne is waiting to talk to Igwayne in her study. When the first rain came after the Bowl of Winds was used, the Eyes Sedai celebrated. Their joy did not last as the rain turned to tempests and then snow. There is an army to the north, mostly Andorans but some from Murandy. Igwayne orders him to set up a meeting as soon as possible. Before he leaves Igwayne asks him how long he would want to rest the soldiers before beginning a siege of Tar Vawlyn and he replies a month would be enough.

After Bryne leaves Igwayne mentions her objective to free Eyes Sedai from the three oaths to which Sewan strenuously objects. Sewan believes the oaths are what hold the White Tower together instead of being a collection of women who can channel. Sewan says that Igwayne can trust Bryne and let  him know her plans. Igwayne is shocked to realize that Sewan is in love with Bryne. Igwayne tells Sewan to have Beonin, Anaiya and Myrelle to ride north to meet with Pelivar to make arrangements for an Eyes Sedai visit.





Chapter 16. Unexpected Absences.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne calls a meeting of the Hall of the Tower, the eighteen Sitters gather around standing early in the day. The meeting is not secret so other sisters gather around to find out what is happening. She orders the camp to rest for two or three days so repairs can be made. Sewan is waiting in her study with reports, mostly that everything is wearing out, supplies are short and coin is shorter.

Point of view: Aran'gar.

Aran'gar has buried a corpse in the snow which she expects will not be found until spring. She reflects that she hardly remember what life was like as a man anymore.

Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Lelaine arrives wishing to talk to Igwayne about the Sea Folk. Romanda arrives and mentions it is the Sea Folk in Kai'rienne that need to be discussed. Rand met the Sea Folk in Kai'rienne but what they discusses is not known and they wish to find out. They hope that messages could be passed to Merilille using tel'aran'rhiod. Chesa enters with Igwayne's midday meal and mentions that Mari seems to have wandered off. Later Chesa comes in and mentions that Selame is nowhere to be found either.

Sewan mentions a patterns she has noticed and brings it to Igwayne's attention. All of the new Sitters in the Hall of the Tower are younger than they should be, much younger. Romanda arrives again and orders Sewan to leave. Romanda tells Igwayne that when they meet with Pelivar Romanda is to be in charge of any discussions that take place. Igwayne is only to be their figurehead. Lelaine enters and gives Igwayne similar orders in favor of herself. Sewan enters and tells Igwayne the meeting is arranged. Both are very satisfied that the situation is now exactly what they wanted to allow Igwayne to take control of the Hall.

Point of view: Sheriam Bayanar.

Sheriam enters her tent and is then shielded and flung on to her bed and punished for not finding out what Igwayne is up to.





Chapter 17. Out on the Ice.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne is traveling to the meeting with the Andoran nobles, accompanied by Sheriam, Sewan, Gareth Bryne and all of the sitters from the Hall of the Tower. A large escort of soldiers scout and guard the party which pleases Igwayne since there will be more witnesses to what she attempts today. As they near the meeting site Byrne lets Igwayne, Romanda and Lelaine know that Lord Tahlmahness will also be present.

The Andoran nobles state that they will not let the Eyes Sedai into Andor because they do not want a battle between the Black Tower and the White Tower to devastate Andor. Igwayne tells the nobles her battle is with Elaida, the usurper and that she is the true Amyrlin Seat. Igwayne promises to not enter Andor at all. Instead the Eyes Sedai will rest for a month and then leave Murandy. She also announces that the Novice book is open to any who have the ability to channel regardless of age.





Chapter 18. A Peculiar Calling.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne and the sitters begin mingling with the nobles from Andor and Murandy. Igwayne tells Sheriam to find out about the references to Eyes Sedai and Tower Guards moving through Andor. When Sewan starts to express concerns over Igwayne's statements to the nobles, she mentions that she knows Sewan is in love with Gareth Bryne. She then heads over to talk with Tahlmahness. Tahlmahness wants to know where Mat is so Igwayne tells him in Ebou Dar the last she heard.

Tahlmahness is going to aid Roedran, the king of Murandy in uniting the noble houses which are typically independent of the King. Igwayne makes him promise to not get involved in a war though. Tahlmahness is also feeling Mat's tahveeren nature tugging him to the south, so he will no longer be shadowing the Eyes Sedai army. As she moves away she notices Romanda and Lelaine casting angry glances her way. Both had told Igwayne that they should be assigned the role of speaking to the nobles, but Igwayne kept that task for herself.

Igwayne mingles with the nobles, rarely getting the respect she should. Finally it is time to leave and Igwayne wants to get everyone back before the sun sets so she can go forward with the next part of her plan.





Chapter 19. The Law.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.






Igwayne al'Veer gathers all the Sitters present at the meeting and leads them back to camp. Bryne offer her his support which she appreciates, but declines. There, she goes back to her tent and talks with Sewan, who gives her a few more tips and pointers towards the formal, upcoming meeting of the Hall. Sewan asks Igwayne to not mention her feelings for him. Sewan does not seem to accept the fact that her work is being affected. Instead, she claims that she needs to be near the man because of Min's viewings.

A pavilion is erected, and Igwayne calls for the Hall to sit. Before Lelaine or Romanda can arrange for the Hall to penalize Igwayne for not relinquishing control at the meeting with the Andoran nobles, she calls a question for the Hall: who will declare war on Elaida? She then calls for a vote, which stops Lelaine and Romanda since a question takes precedence over other business. In the end, the majority is accepted and Igwayne declares war on Elaida. She then announces that once war is declared, the Amyrlin Seat governs the war by decree and the Hall has no choice but to approve all decrees relating to the war. Igwayne decrees that after their month of rest they will Travel to Tar Vawlyn and begin the siege.





Chapter 20. Into Andor.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

After the explosion that destroyed the gateway and prevented the Shawn'chin from entering Andor, the Eyes Sedai, the Kin, the Sea Folk and the rest of their followers stay at the Hornwell estate. As they travel toward Kaymlin Elayne asks after the concerns of the common people they encounter without giving her name. Most believe the Dragon Reborn killed her and is causing the bad weather too. Vandene and Adeleas continue to question the Darkfriend Ispan Shefar but do not get much in the way of answers. They believe she must have taken an oath that can't be broken. The weather changes and what was suppose to be a two week trip to Kaymlin becomes much longer. Also, no one has proper clothes for the snow and cold, hampering their progress.

Nine'eev and Elayne go to tel'aran'rhiod to meet Igwayne, but only find a message to stay in Kaymlin and stay silent.





Chapter 21. Answering the Summons.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand and the Asha'man from the Black Tower begin scouting out Shawn'chin positions even though the weather has turned to strong storms. Rand assembles several groups of armsmen, each with forces from multiple countries to help assure their loyalty. Rand channels a gateway, but lately he gets dizzy and sees double when he seizes the source. He moves his forces to Illian near the city as a staging point. Narishma finally arrives though later than Rand had expected. He brought a long thin package saying the traps on it were more than what Rand described. From the city one thousand of the Legion of the Dragon with crossbows arrives. He moves closer to Ebou Dar while waiting for the Asha'man to bring the others, mostly those lords and ladies he trusts least, but also Davram Bashere.





Chapter 22. Gathering Clouds.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand has gathered a large force to begin attacking the Shawn'chin forces moving toward Illian. The Asha'man make gateways to the Venir Mountains in Altara for the 6,000 soldiers in Rand's army.

Davram Bashere warns Rand about being too careless. Just as Rand says he has no plans to die yet, an archer assassin takes aim. Rand tries channeling, but becomes sick again. The arrow barely misses and the Asha'man kill the archer with fireballs. Rand vomits and his paranoia grows about being seen as weak and vulnerable. Many opportunists might take advantage of his weakness.

The leader of the rebel Illianers, Eagan Padros, was the archer assassin. As various Asha'man examine the body, Rand notes how much stronger they have become. They find Eagan carried a pouch of Tar Vawlyn gold hinting at Eyes Sedai influence. But, Tar Vawlyn coins are commonly found everywhere and Eagan's motives are left uncertain. 

One of Rand's scouts reports seeing a Shawn'chin. Rand orders the army to move. In Rand's mind, Lews Therin recommends killing the Asha'man.

Point of view: Assid Bakuun.

Bakuun commands a camp of Shawn'chin and Taraboner soldiers. An unknown sickness afflicts the damane which the sul'dam can't explain. This greatly concerns Bakuun. A scout on a raken drops a message that a force roughly 5-6 times larger is 10 miles east. Bakuun is confident that the damane can handle force even 20 times larger. He orders the camp cleared and they move towards the forested slopes.





Chapter 23. Fog of War, Storm of Battle.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand's army has a group of Shawn'chin but mostly it is the Asha'man doing the killing. Rand does not want to seize the source since it makes him dizzy and sick, which he cannot afford to allow others to see. A patrol brings in a sul'dam, upset because her damane was killed. There is another group of Shawn'chin thirty miles away but first the soldiers must be fed.

Point of view: Furyk Karede.

Karede has twenty-three hundred men but few of them are Shawn'chin and only two damane. He hasn't been able to figure out how such large forces were able to assemble in the mountains without any warning. One of his men ordered the scouts to press ahead, looking for Rand's forces. Karede is furious but before he can do anything an attack begins, slaughtering his forces. He decides he must retreat with his forces, which goes against the principles of the Ever Victorious Army.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand is viewing the results of the most recent battle, with most of the troops and Asha'man still in the valley below. One of the Asha'man brings a captured sul'dam to Rand and comments that siedeen feels strange in this area. They have twenty-three sul'dam and two damane captives now. Rand orders Flinn and Dashiva to help with the fighting, leaving him with no other channelers. Suddenly Rand finds himself losing the source, falling from his horse and then an arrow through his arm. Shawn'chin have come from the North where Weiramon is supposed to be holding the flank. The force nearby lead by Anaiyella intervenes and stops the Shawn'chin charge. Bashere arrives and deals with the Shawn'chin forces. Morr arrives and heals Rand.

Bashere gives his assessment that the Shawn'chin are retreating and not likely to stop before they reach Ebou Dar. Some of the other lords suggest moving forward and taking Ebou Dar itself.





Chapter 24. A Time for Iron.



Point of view: Kennar Miraj.


Captain-General Kennar Miraj is camped a few miles east of Ebou Dar. He has received countless reports of groups of enemy soldiers in the Venir Mountain range and several of his outposts has been overrun. He estimates their number at 90,000, nearly twice what he has. He has several raken and to'raken, but something is wrong with the damane and the sul'dam are staying confined to their tent.

The High Lady Suroth enters his tent, newly arrived from Ebou Dar, accompanied by her Voice, Alwhin and 2 da'covale. Oddly, one of the da'covale, a short, dark-haired, slim, pale-eyed woman is leashed as a damane, with Alwhin holding the a'dam. The other da'covale, a young woman with a doll's face and her hair in thin braids is sullen and poorly trained. Both her and the damane have a strange, ageless look to them.

Suroth asks Miraj if he is ready to march; Miraj thinks it will take at least 10 days for the enemy to combine and march on Ebou Dar. Suroth tells him that there are only about 5,000 men, but 50 Asha'man. They are Traveling, so they could be there by tomorrow. Miraj wonders how Suroth knows this, but she orders him to wipe them out. Miraj asks Suroth to release the damane to him and asks if they are still sick. Suroth does not say, but she agrees to give him the damane he needs after pointing out the price of failure.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand pushes a final drive against the Shawn'chin. Lews Therin becomes increasingly withdrawn. Dashiva, Flinn, Adley, Eben Hopwil, Morr, Narishma, Manel Rochaid, and Charl Gedwyn are all holding gateways for his army. Davram Bashere rides up, accompanied by all the other nobles, joining Ailil Riatan and Anaiyella Narencelona. Rand tells them that there are still 50,000 Shawn'chin 10 miles west and warns everyone to stick with the plan. The remaining Shawn'chin are still enough to defeat them. The nobles all head out. 



Weiramon Saniago leads Kiril Drapaneos, Bertome Say’gahn, Doressin Chuliandred and several minor Cairhienin.
Gregorin leads Sunamon and Dalthanes.
Bashere leads Jeordwyn Semaris, Amondrid and Gueyam.
Semaradrid leads Torean, Maraconn and Ershin Netari.
Gedwyn accompanies Weiramon while Rochaid accompanies Bashere.
Jak Masond leads a company of the Legion of the Dragon.


The remaining Asha'man join Rand and Dashiva, revealing that he is not so mad as he usually pretends, says that siedeen is behaving oddly; his weaves are vibrating instead of holding steady. Rand shrugs this off, telling Dashiva that he's just feeling the taint more strongly. Dashiva persists though and forces Rand to actually look at a weave, which unsettles him. He secretly wishes Herid Fel were alive to answer this for him. Arlen Nalaam Travels in to report that the Shawn'chin are on the march and Rand sets his army in motion.



Point of view: Kennar Miraj.


Miraj hopes to close with Rand's forces before he knows they are there. A scout reports the enemy 5 miles ahead, deployed in 5 columns. Miraj gives the order for deployment of his forces and worries about the damane.



Point of view: Bertome Say’gahn.


Bertome is riding in one of the attack columns and moves up to talk to Weiramon. He overhears Weiramon and Gedwyn talking, but they cut short the conversation before he can understand what it is about. A scout rides in then and warns of 2,000 Taraboners right behind him. Weiramon and Bertome lead their men in an attack.



Point of view: Varek.


Varek has a message he needs to get to Banner-General Chianmai but there is much fighting around him. When he reaches the camp, Chianmai is dead. A Taraboner reports that they were attacked and were winning thanks to the damane, but then the damane channeling went wrong. Varek takes command of the remaining men, planning to disengage.



Point of view: Davram Bashere.


Bashere is deciding between crossing a meadow which could be a death trap or going around which will take time. He asks for Rochaid for assurances the Asha'man will respond more quickly next time. They are having difficulty channeling. He decides to go around with triple scouts out.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Bashere reports to Rand and suggests strongly that Rand and his army leave the field of battle. He tells Rand that their original battle plan cannot work now as the Shawn'chin general has adapted and gathered his forces. Now the Shawn'chin lie in wait for Rand and his forces ahead in the forest. Rand, nervous but confident, opts to wield Callandorand unleash lightning in the area. He loses control of both siedeen and Callandor, and devastates the surrounding area until Bashere knocks him down to cease the attack which is also affecting his own forces. Now really seeing what his attack has done, Rand chooses to leave the battlefield with his forces. He feels this as the first defeat of the Dragon Reborn and Lews Therin in his head is furious about that.



Point of view: Abaldar Yulan.


Yulan covers the body of Banner-General Miraj, to keep the rain off of him. He orders the retreat back to Ebou Dar; the Shawn'chin have suffered their second defeat since The Return. Someone will have to apologize to the Empress.





Chapter 25. An Unwelcome Return.






Point of view: Elaida.

Elaida meets with some of the Sitters trying to determine the accuracy of reports on Shawn'chin damane. They have plans to put Kings and Queens of their own choosing back in Kai'rienne, Tear, and Illian. The Rebel Eyes Sedai are stuck in Murandy for the winter.

After the meeting, Alviarin Freidhen instructs Elaida to recant some of her directives and issue new and more disruptive orders. Elaida believed she was free since Alviarin had left the Tower for 2 weeks. Alviarin sends the Mistress of Novices to Elaida to remind her that Alviarin is in charge. Elaida hopes Alviarin's blackmail an manipulation are exposed.

Point of view: Alviarin Freidhen.

Alviarin reports to Mesaana. Mesaana reminds her to not rise above her station. Alviarin prostrates herself in front of Mesaana who is pacified. Mesaana is notified of Eliada's decrees being distributed. Alviarin suggests Eliada's removal but Mesaana brushes it aside. Instead Mesaana redirects Alviarin to inquire about the Ajah heads' secret meetings, while regretting the loss of Galina for these matters. Alviarin notes Mesaana isn't omniscient for not knowing the information and notices parts of Mesaana's dress through her illusion, and hopes to find Mesaana unaware in the White Tower.





Chapter 26. The Extra Bit.



Point of view: Seaine Herimon.

Seaine Herimon continues investigating treachery in the White Tower on Elaida's orders. She leads Zerah Dacan down to the bowels of the Tower, below even the level where Accepted are tested. Pevara Tazanovni awaits them in a small room. Seaine and Pevara force Zerah to reswear to obey with an Oath Rod, which they have borrowed for the purpose. Although she is not Black Ajah, they discover she is a rebel spy from the Salidar Eyes Sedai. She has now sworn an oath to obey Seaine and Pevara and reveals to them the names of the 9 other Salidar Eyes Sedai spreading rumors in the Tower. Seaine feels disappointed that they haven't found any Black Ajah yet.

After Zerah has left, Syreen, Yukiri, Doesine, and Talene surprise the two women. They wish to know why the two of them have been snooping about and Syreen grabs the Oath Rod. She suspects their purpose and makes everyone present retake the Oaths. But, Talene resists and reveals herself as Black Ajah.

Point of view: Toevienne Gazal.

Toevienne leads the Tower Eyes Sedai to the Black Tower on Elaida's order. In a thicket she is stopped by several Asha'man who have her and her fellow Sisters shielded. Thinking there are just a few Asha'man at most, she orders her Guardsmen to attack and her fellow Eyes Sedai to disperse. She is easily caught, and hears someone calling out that no Sisters are to be harmed, on order of the Dragon Reborn.

Toevienne screams. Logain approaches, and kisses her. After inquiring, she learns that he has bonded her.





Chapter 27. The Bargain.






Point of view: Min Farshaw.

Min reads Herid Fel's books in Rand's room in the Sun Palace, trying to figure out why he was killed. Rand finally enters after being absent for 6 days and wearing the Crown of Swords. She begins to dress him down but he lifts her with siedeen and brings her over for a kiss. Dobraine enters and updates Rand. Toram Riatin and Padan Fain have disappeared. Caraline Dawmodred and Darlin Sisnera are "guests" of Cadsuane, but are not allowed to leave or receive visitors. Min shares her viewing that Caraline and Darlin will marry and he will be a king somewhere, eventually dying in bed.

Merana and Rafela enter to give the finalized terms of The Bargain.  



Rand gets access to the Sea Folk ships whenever, wherever, and for whatever purpose he needs.
The Sea Folk get
To keep their own laws. Rand cannot change any of their laws as he did to Tear and Kai'rienne.
A square mile of land at every city on navigable water Rand controls now or in the future. Sea Folk law will supercede local laws within that square mile.
A Sea Folk ambassador stays with Rand at all times. For the time being, it would be Harine din Togara Two Winds, her Windfinder, her Swordmaster, and her retinue.
Rand must promptly answer a summons by the Mistress of Ships a maximum of 2 times in 3 consecutive years.


Rand fumes at the last 2 terms, which personally put him under the Sea Folk's influence. Merana fires back that his tahveeren effect could have finalized The Bargain as he wished, but he left during negotiations. Annoyed at the manipulation, the Sea Folk shielded Merana and Rafela to avoid One Power influence and threatened to hang them by their toes. So, they finalized the terms as best they could. Merana adds that Harine formally acknowledged Rand as the Coramoor. Rand is furious, but calmly admits he left the negotiations in a mess and surprisingly compliments their work.

With great difficulty, Merana and Rafela kept the details from Cadsuane. Rand decides he must deal with Cadsuane. He firmly asks Min to have the Maidens send a message to Cadsuane to "attend the Dragon Reborn in all haste." Many Maidens line the hallways outside and watch intently or play knife, paper, stone. Two Maidens trot away to deliver Rand's message, but the others strangely ignore Min. Back in his bedroom, Min watches Rand undress. Rand asks again if he truly needs Cadsuane's teaching. Min says her viewing shows Rand and the Asha'man both need her teaching. Rand bristles because revealing needs often lets others manipulate you, especially Eyes Sedai. He clarifies, "You, I need, Min. [...] Not for your viewings. I just need you."

Three Maidens march in without shoufa or weapons, but suddenly beat Rand. Somara tangles him in his shirt and kicks him in the groin. Nesair punches him in the right side. When Min tries to intervene, Nandera disarms her and kicks her to the floor. All 3 beat him severely, but carefully avoid the wounds in his left side. Once Rand is beaten to the floor, they growl that they earned this right from among all the Maidens, explaining the many knife, paper, stone games in the hallway earlier. Rand had disrespected the honor of Far Dareis Mai yet again by leaving them out of the Illian and Shawn'chin campaigns. So, they punished him like a first-brother and warn him not to do it again, although there are hints of tenderness and sympathy. As Rand and Min recover on the bed, Daigian Moseneillin arrives to tell Rand that Cadsuane is too busy with her needlepoint and might come another day if she has time. As Daigian glides out, Rand shouts back that Cadsuane can rot!

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand gingerly dresses for his visit to Cadsuane, seizing siedeen in the bedroom where Min won't see him stagger. He leaves Min behind but has an escort of Maidens and Asha'man. Rand and the Asha'man use the power to try to intimidate Cadsuane, but it has no apparent effect. Rand finally asks her to be his advisor, but she declines not wanting to take orders. Rand sweetens the offer by not requiring swearing of oaths and she reconsiders, but she has some promises from her and rules for him.



He must listen to her, but she won't force him to do what she wants.
He must not lie, but she doesn't need everything revealed.
She will do what is best for him, not for her good or the White Tower's good.
He must be civil to her, her friends, and her guests. That includes not channeling at them.
He must control his temper.


Cadsuane tells Rand that Callandor is flawed because it doesn't have the safety buffer sa'angreal usually have. Also, it magnifies the madness from the taint. So, to use it safely he must be linked to two women with one of them guiding the flows. Rand hoped he would be strong enough to use Callandor, but is left with only one terrifying choice. He recalls Lanfear's temptation that he could challenge the Creator.





Chapter 28. Crimsonthorn.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne is preparing for the day's trek when Adeleas approaches, pulling Garenia Rosoinde by the arm. Garenia is a runaway from the tower with the name Zarya Alkaese and must be put back into novice white with strict novice discipline too. Then Kirstian Chalwin kneels and submits, admitting she ran away three hundred years ago, which makes her older than Adeleas. The Kin are ready to rebel over this treatment of their members, but finally Reanne and Alise agree the Eyes Sedai are in charge. Nine days later Kirstian barges into Elayne's room and telling her that LAN says she and Nine'eev must come at once and tell no one. Adeleas and Ispan have been murdered. Nine'eev checks the contents of the teapot and discovers it was laced with Crimsonthorn. Vandene enters and determines that Adeleas must have trusted whoever brought the tea so it was a member of the party traveling to Kaymlin.

Two more days brought the party to Kaymlin where Eye’eel loyal to Rand still guard the city. In the plaza before the Royal Palace, Elayne declares herself for the Lion Throne. Entering the palace, Elayne heads to the throne room and swears to honor her mother's memory. Die’lin enters, promising a respite from favor seekers for a bit. Die’lin promises to support Elayne's claim to the throne. Many of the other nobles have either made their own claim or may do so rather than support Elayne. Die’lin asks her what she intends to do about Rand and she replies make him her Warder.

Point of view: Dahveed Hanlon.

Hanlon enters Kaymlin on instructions and goes to the house where he is to obey orders from Lady Shiaine Avarhin. Jay'kem Carriden is bound, his mouth held open by a block of wood with a hole in the center. Shiaine pours brandy down his throat until he drowns since he failed badly in Ebou Dar. A woman bound the same way is released and begs and pleads that she will obey the will of the Great Master and Shiaine. Falion Bhoda is an Eyes Sedai, but it makes no difference, she must obey. Shiaine promises Hanlon that he will get the chance to put his hands on a queen, which he looks forward to.





Chapter 29. A Cup of Sleep.






Point of view: Min Farshaw.

Rand is sulking because Elayne tore down all of his banners and does not want his aid in securing the Lion Throne. Min encourages him to go visit Elayne in Kaymlin, but he won't give in. 

Sorilea brings five of the captured Eyes Sedai in to where Rand and Min are arguing in front of the Sun Throne: Elza Penfell, Nesune Bihara, Sarene Nemdahl, Beldeine Nyram, and Erian Boroleos. She says all five have asked for the same beatings they gave him while holding him prisoner and all have asked to serve him however they can; but the choice is his whether or not to accept. One by one, Rand asks each woman why. After hearing their very different answers, he allows them to pledge fealty to him and orders them all to be made apprentices to the Wise Ones, like the others that had pledged fealty to him at first.

Rand is then told by Sorilea that Cadsuane is in the palace. He decides to visit her. He takes Min and Fedwin Morr with him and when they enter the hall there is a loud bang. Turning around they see his antechamber and bedroom burning and torn to rubble. Rand tells Morr to take care of Min.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand sets off down the hall seizing siedeen. He sees Corlan Dashiva, Gedwyn and Rochaid. When they spot him, Dashiva attacks. Rand shields himself using some weave known probably just to Lews Therin, then attacks back with Fire but then can't find them again. Later Rand attacks Narishma, more or less consciously, and contemplates if he can blame Lews Therin for this.

Point of view: Min Farshaw.

Min is in a lower level of the Cairhienin palace watching Rand. Morr plays with wooden blocks. Min looks at him sadly knowing that the man who has protected her is now a boy in his mind. He is lost to himself with no chance of recovery.

Mazrim Taim comes in and Rand tells him to add Dashiva to the list of deserters who shall hang from the traitors' tree. Taim agrees as Rand gives Morr a wine cup with an herb in it that will kill him, to free him from his madness. Rand tells Taim to return to the farm, the Black Tower, and not to come back to Kai'rienne.

Rand says he has to go and Min replies that she is not going to leave him.





Chapter 30. Beginnings.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Pairin and a group from his camp are heading to Abila to meet with the Prophet of the Lord Dragon, Mahsemma. Following advice from Elyas, Pairin is getting along better with Faile. The men guarding the bridge into town let Pairin's party pass without comment. Balwer goes off to gather information while the rest head to the meeting. When Pairin enters the room with Mahsemma, his scent is of madness. Pairin tells Mahsemma that he has come with a message from the Lord Dragon, that Rand has summoned him to Kai'rienne. Pairin initially wants to take Mahsemma via Traveling, but Mahsemma convinces him to let them ride instead.

Point of view: Faile Bashere.

Faile is hawking with Alliandre while Maighdin serves as her maid. Faile is glad that Pairin will shout back at her when she is upset. She doesn't like feeling that Pairin thinks she is too weak. Three of her retainers come in to the camp saying that Mahsemma is working with the Shawn'chin. Then they are surrounded by Eye’eel using bows to attack the soldiers. Faile yells for her retainers, as well as the other women on horses to ride like fire to tell Pairin about the Shawn'chin. Faile draws a knife but her horse is shot and an Eye’eel captures her after a tussle. She is stripped naked and sees that Bain and Chiad have also been captured. The captors say that Sevanna wants more gai'shain even though only Eye’eel should be considered gai'shain. Alliandre and Maighdin are then dragged over naked as well. It appears that Berelain is the only one to escape the attack.

Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.

Igwayne is riding and listening to Chesa grumble about the other two maids running away. She is thinking about the novices' increased numbers; with the novice book being open for a month they have received a flood of women and girls who want to be Eyes Sedai. The girls from the Two Rivers arrived a couple of days ago and are having a hard time showing respect to the Amyrlin. They now have almost a thousand novices, which is double what they had before.

Romanda and Lelaine open their mouths to talk to her, but Igwayne puts them off by commanding a gateway to be made. Romanda sniffs but thirteen Eyes Sedai linked together make a gateway near to Tar Vawlyn. Men stream through and soon after Sheriam says "It is begun."

Igwayne rides through feeling like she can see the white walls of Tar Vawlyn.





Chapter 31. After.






Point of view: Narrator.

Many rumors criss-cross the land, even in winter. Many are completely wrong while some that are close to the truth are the least believed.



Places[]


Tar Vawlyn

















