Chapter 0. Snow.






Point of view: Seaine Herimon.

The prologue opens up to a basement in the White Tower where Pevara Tazanovni, Seaine Herimon, Syreen Asnobar, Doesine Alwain and Yukiri Haruna are performing a ritual on an Eyes Sedai. The ritual is normally used on criminals to make them confess to their crimes and repent. A ter'angreal is used for this, the Chair of Remorse. Yukiri worries that they will be removed as Sitters, and probably worse since they are forbidden to use the Chair on initiates of the White Tower.

At the end of the ritual, Talene Minly is made to renounce her previous oaths and re-swear the three oaths along with the "new fourth oath" to obey the five sisters present. She is then questioned and reveals she is Black Ajah. She declares that Elaida is also Black Ajah but provides no actual proof. She says that their group always knows every order before it's been given so she asks what else could be the answer other than Elaida being Black Ajah. The rest of the group is not convinced.

Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne Trakand is in her sitting room with Birgitte Trahelion and Die’lin Taravin, discussing the current state of things and Elayne's plans for the future. Birgitte lets slip a piece of her past in front of Die’lin when Elayne orders her to make an army good enough to withstand ten houses. They are interrupted by the Sea Folk Renaile din Calon Blue Star, Zaida din Parede Blackwing, and Merilille. The windfinders are badgering Elayne for more teachers to fulfill their bargain. Shortly after an agreement is made for sisters in the Palace to do some teaching, Reene Harfor announces Mazrim Taim who enters unceremoniously with two Asha'man and presents his own demands on Elayne's time and land. Just as Elayne is setting him straight, the Wise One, Nadere enters to call Elayne away.

Elayne needs to answer the summons immediately and without hesitation. She also needs to answer it "as a child comes to birth."

She is told to strip in front of all present. As Elayne complies much to her embarrassment, Taim gives the Asha'man present the order "about face." Several of the ladies present attempt to form a wall between Elayne and Taim (who admires Elayne's hips over his shoulder). After she strips naked, and leaves the room with nothing but a shawl to guard against the cold, she is brought to a room with half a dozen Wise Ones and the birthing ceremony where she and Aviendha become first-sisters commences. 

The ceremony is a ritual involving surrogate mothers for each Elayne (Viendre) and Aviendha (Tamela) as well as a third surrogate mother to "suffer the pangs of birth." Amys serves the last role. Wise Ones weave Saidar and Monaelle, acting as an officiant, asks Elayne and Aviendha a series of questions to be answered with complete honesty about each other and then directs the women to slap each other. The resolve to become first-sisters not shattered by the honesty and pain inflicted, Elayne experiences a simulated gestation as a fetus through birth, sensing Aviendha along side her for the experience.

Elayne notices more than a kinship with Aviendha after the rebirth. She senses a psychic link not unlike her bond with her Warder but fainter.

Point of view: Toevienne Gazal.

Toevienne Gazal and Gabrelle Brawley Sedai are bound to Logain Ablar by the warder bond. She watches a group walk through the village area, not realizing Mazrim Taim is escorting Elayne and Birgitte until one of the Asha'man calls her Lady Elayne. She has orders to hide her face from outsiders so none will know she is Eyes Sedai. 

Toevienne learns that Gabrelle is sleeping with Logain and is disgusted by it. Gabrelle explains she was using it to extract information from Logain and begins sharing all she learned. Apparently, Logain is the only full Asha'man in this village while all others are with Taim in his "palace." After reading through Toevienne's papers, including Elaida's orders to gentle and hang all male channelers on the spot, he burned them in an effort to protect them. Toevienne overhears that Taim has declared several Asha'man as deserters and some of them are said to have been faithful to Taim. The Black Tower had already begun separating into one faction for Taim and another faction for Logain. Now that their attack on the Black Tower failed, they decide to unite under Desandre Alraed as the only way to keep the 51 captured Eyes Sedai together.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand and Min are in the Academy at Kai'rienne so she can get some books from Master Fel's old library. He has apparently been jumping around the world trying to throw various people off his trail and lead others into a trap. Dobraine reports on what is happening at the Sun Palace and Idrien Tarsin reports on the various strange inventions being made at the Academy. After they leave Rand tells Min what his real plan is, to cleanse the taint from siedeen. Rand is carrying both of the Choedan Kal access keys with him; he plans to use them, but one will need a woman channeler.



Miscellaneous[]


The weave used during the first sisters ceremony to hold the words of Aviendha and Elayne is potentially similar to a weave that could be used to avoid the three oaths by black sisters.[verify]





Chapter 1. Leaving the Prophet.






Point of view: Global/Pairin Eyebarra.


The chapter opens with the wind crossing Tarabon and Amadicia, and the wind ends up tugging on Pairin's clothes, thereby beginning Pairin's point-of-view, which is used throughout the chapter. In Tarabon a vast Shawn'chin fleet has brought farmers, crafters, merchants and many others that begin to settle in the area.

Pairin is thinking about the orders that Rand gave him when he sent Pairin forth from Kai'rienne during Lord of Chaos. Rand's orders were to bring Mahsemma to him, and keep it secret. Pairin had intended to have the two Asha'man Rand sent with him, Grady and Neald, create a gateway back to Rand, but Mahsemma professed to Pairin that Rand was the only person who could channel the one power because he is the Light made flesh. Therefore, Mahsemma refused to utilize a gateway to be taken to Rand. The Eyes Sedai and Wise Ones believe Mahsemma should be killed like a rabid dog.

The chapter concludes with Balwer updating Pairin on current events, reprising the role of spymaster that he played for Pedron Niall before his death. Balwer brought Pairin news of two battles involving the Shawn'chin. The first battle was the Shawn'chin defeat of King Ailron of Amadicia. Balwer also informed Pairin that the Children of the Light or Whitecloaks participated in the battle, but unlike the Amadician forces, which were annihilated, the Whitecloaks withdrew in good order. The second battle was the Shawn'chin and an opponent, the identity of whom Balwer did not know. However, as a result of the battle, the Shawn'chin were thrown back to Ebou Dar from their forward position close to the Illian border. The reader is, of course, aware that this was the battle between Rand and the Shawn'chin from The Path of Daggers.

The chapter ends with Pairin ordering his companions to pick up the pace as they ride from Abila toward their camp.





Chapter 2. Taken.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin rides his horse back to camp, where he is met with dire news: Berelain tells him that Faile and Alliandre have been captured by the Shaido. Pairin goes into a near rage, and Elyas tells him to stay calm. Pairin then reaches out to the wolves, thinking they can help track the Shaido and his beloved wife, but they decline the offer. Then Dannil Lewin rides up, telling him he sent three of the best Two Rivers men to track the Eye’eel. Gaul and the Maidens also set off in search of Faile. Pairin attempts to ask the Wise ones what will happen to Faile but they are unable to give him an answer as the Shaido are not acting like the usual Eye’eel. When Pairin enters his tent, Lini comes up to him and says that Maighdin was also with the party. Distraught, Pairin wanders off on his own and finds Tallanvor on the rise where he decides to wait for the trackers.





Chapter 3. Customs.






Point of view: Faile Bashere.

Faile and the others are forced to march naked through the snow by the group of roughly 150 Shaido. A tall Eye’eel named Rolan leads Faile. To stay focused and alert, she tries noting anything that could aid in their escape. After hours of marching, feet bloodied, Rolan hauls her on his shoulders and carries her onwards. Faile, even colder without the constant running, worries about frostbite.

Bain and Chiad accept their fate - a year and a day as gai'shain and are able to keep up with the Shaido. Lacile Aldorwin and Arrela Shiego of Cha Faile, try to emulate the Eye’eel Maidens with some success. Maighdin and Alliandre struggle frequently, leading to their beatings.  Eventually, they are also carried by Shaido. 

The cold and running motion gradually lulls Faile to sleep. She dreams of Pairin, running across an icy landscape, and then a bonfire. She wakes and a gai'shain gives her almost scalding, honeyed tea to drink. She and the other women are camped out being warmed by a fire with blankets, coats, and tea. Faile realizes the gai'shain were not with them on the march, so they must have joined an even larger Shaido camp. She sees thousands of Shaido around and begins despairing of escape.





Chapter 4. Offers.






Point of view: Faile Bashere.


Two Eye’eel women come up to Faile, accompanied by a short gai'shain woman who is oddly dressed in robes of silk and is wearing a belt and collar made of gold and firedrops. The Wise Ones are Therava and Someryn. They dismiss Rolan and the other Shaido spears. Someryn laughs that they have more gai'shain for Sevanna, and jokes that Sevanna will not be satisfied until the whole world is gai'shain, while Therava says that Sevanna has too many gai'shain already.

Alliandre rises and announces who she is and that her liege lady is also here, which angers Faile because it is information the Shaido should not know. She says that they should be treated well as the Shaido can demand a large ransom for their return. Sevanna rides up wearing wetlander clothes and asks the gai'shain, Galina, if this is true. Galina says she met Alliandre when she was young and confirms her identity and explains that the liege lady would have to be very powerful to have a queen swear fealty. Faile is certain that Sevanna is the one who was really responsible for all of the damage done by Couladin; she also feels a personal claim on Sevanna for Pairin nearly dying at Dumai's Wells. Sevanna identifies Faile as the liege lady and Maighdin as her maid and orders Galina to Heal the captives so they can walk. Faile is amazed that she is Eyes Sedai. Sevanna then announces that a fifth sept, the Jonine, has joined them. Therava is not impressed, as seventy-eight others still remain scattered. She advises Sevanna to remember her pledge to reunite the Shaido because they will not wait forever. It is clear to Faile that she and the Wise Ones hate each other.

When Galina finishes with the Healing, the two Wise Ones leave and she follows. Other gai'shain bring in dried meat, cheese and bread for the captives. Next they are given white robes and an Amadician woman comes forward to put a golden belt on her. Faile tells her she doesn’t want it, but the Amadician says she serves Sevanna now and must do as she is told. Faile relents and accepts the adornments meekly, prompting Maighdin and Alliandre to follow suit.

Soon they are marching along with a column of Shaido. Faile, Alliandre and Maighdin become separated from Bain, Chiad, Lacile Aldorwin, and Arrela. They plan to escape that night, and Maighdin and Alliandre say they will stay with Faile until she escapes or they will not leave at all.

After a while, several Wise Ones approach led by Therava. She knows they are thinking of escaping and tells them they will be gai'shain for the rest of their lives unless they help her. They are to spy on Sevanna and report back to her. If they learn something that pleases Therava, she will see that they are left behind, but if Sevanna finds out they are spying, Therava will cook them herself!

A while later Galina joins them. She tells them she is on an important mission for the White Tower. She asks Alliandre if Faile is really her liege lady and who she is to have a queen swear to her. Alliandre announces she is the Lady Faile t’Eyebarra. Galina tells them that Sevanna has plans for Rand and would dearly like to have Pairin's wife as a hostage, but she will keep their secret and help them escape if they retrieve a smooth white rod from Therava's tent. Faile tells her it may take time and Galina says she has her whole life if necessary. After she leaves, Faile desperately tries to think of a plan of escape.





Chapter 5. Flags.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


The chapter opens with Pairin in a wolf dream searching for Faile. Hopper appears and tells him he was there (in the wolf dream) too strongly and he must go back to the waking world to survive and find Faile as he was not there.

He awakens from the dream to find himself in an elaborately furnished tent with Berelain. She tells him that his scouts have not yet returned and that hers were found dead in an ambush not more than 5 or 6 miles from their camp.  She also tells him he needed  Healing from Annoura. He deduced that, as Gaul and Jondyn were not back yet, Faile must still be alive because they would have returned long since if they had found her body.

After leaving to organize food for Pairin, Berelain returned and informed him that, despite agreeing to bring only an honour guard and 100 men, Mahsemma's men had started arriving before daylight and there were now between 3,000 to 4,000 of them in the camp and they were still coming from all over. Mahsemma himself had not yet arrived.  She told him that Mahsemma had been meeting with the Shawn'chin and she also let him know that her men had not been killed by Eye’eel. They were killed with crossbows and axes which is not how Eye’eel fight, suggesting that Mahsemma's men had been responsible. When Pairin displays anger at her not telling him immediately how the men were killed, she uses the moment to again offer herself to him.

Rosene, Berelain's maid, enters with food for Pairin but he leaves and goes in search of Mahsemma's men. When he reached the camp of his own men he found them glum faced and quiet, trying to stay warm. Pairin figured from this that Jondyn, Gaul, Elyas and the others had not returned yet and he held out hope that they would return with Faile or news of where she was being held.      

The Red Eagle of Manetheren and his own Wolfshead banner were hanging limp on two staffs. He planned to use the flags as a way to hide in the open. He figured that people would see the flags and think him and his little army were planning on reclaiming the ancient glories of Manetheren. They would consider him a madman and be pleased to see him ride on rather than try stopping him. He had been hoping to use this strategy and get to Andor before giving up the deception. Faile's disappearance changed things.  Pairin knows there will be a huge price to pay for the change and he was prepared to pay, but he knew it would not be him who paid.    





Chapter 6. The Scent of Madness.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Pairin locates Dannil in the camp and decides that everybody, including the Mayeners and Ghealdanin, would head toward where the ambush had taken place in an attempt to catch up with the Shaido, and when he had a better idea of where he was going Grady or Neald would take them there through a gateway.

He learns from Gill that Tallanvor had gone off alone in search of the Shaido and that he had lied about getting permission from Pairin. He also learns from Gill that Lini is angry with him because of rumours that he had slept in Berelain's tent. 

Selande approaches him to request she and her people have their horses back. He refuses and instead confronts her with the spying she had been doing for Faile. He uses the opportunity to get her to agree that she would do as he says until they get Faile back.

The camp was starting to empty but things came to halt at the sight of suspicious Eye’eel approaching. Pairin recognizes their Eye’eel allies, since they were all maidens and came with Alliandre's horse. Sulin gives him a bundle of his wife's clothes and informs him that Faile, along with Alliandre, Maighdin, Lacile, Arrela, Chiad and Bain were made gai'shain and were likely still alive. She also informs him that the Shaido were moving south.

Sulin shows him the collected arrows from the ambush. The number of arrows gives them some idea of the number of Shaido that were involved in the ambush along with some from other clans. She also shows him a child's doll and suggests it may be a whole sept (at least 1,000 spears) that have his wife captive. She reports seeing flying creatures and tracks from bear-like animals. He shares this with his men and orders them to travel 40 miles due south. He tells Neald to travel ahead, find Elyas and the other trackers, and tell them the plan. 

Mahsemma finds Pairin just at the right time. Pairin tells him to head east with his men. He briefly explains he's going south for Faile who had been captured by Eye’eel. Mahsemma decides to also head south believing that killing Eye’eel would be "...doing the Light's work" even though it would mean using the One Power to travel.





Chapter 7. The Streets of Kaymlin.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne rides through Camelyn to win the hearts and minds of the people. She also wants to see first-hand the situation of the many refugees, merchants, craftsmen, mercenaries, guards, and families displaced by war. Sareitha Tomares Sedai, her Warder Ned Yarman, and 8 Queen's Guard escort her through the city. The women of the Queen's Guard were hand-picked by Birgitte, but Sareitha still feels the streets are not safe. She mentions the suspicious group of 10 Eyes Sedai staying at the The Silver Swan inn, but Elayne already has a watch on them. 

Elayne feels Birgitte's anger and urgency through the Warder bond and redirects straight towards the Royal Palace of Andor. Birgitte meets Elayne with the news that Die’lin's escort were ambushed and killed. They were discreetly escorting Naean Arawn and Elenia Sarand (rivals to the Andoran throne) from the town of Aringill to Camelyn. Clearly, there is a spy in the palace, so Birgitte insists in increasing Elayne's bodyguard. Elayne bristles at the growing restrictions and responsibilities put upon her. Similarly, Birgitte resents Elayne's continued stubbornness and the responsibilities of being Captain General of the Queen's Guard. Birgitte is also angry at Elayne and Aviendha sneaking out only to be attacked by street toughs. Sareitha asks who Birgitte suspects took Naean Arawn and Elenia Sarand. But, Elayne humbles Sareitha with her political acumen regarding the plots of House Arawn and House Sarand.

The group rides back to the Palace in silence. Elayne ruminates over the Eyes Sedai at The Silver Swan, spies in the Palace, the incident surrounding Naean and Elenia, guard recruitment, and selling off Palace goods to get enough money. As she makes her way through the Palace, she wonders about all the unfamiliar new faces she meets. Sareitha and Ned excuse themselves to the library. Elayne and Birgitte argue in the halls about the relationship of Warder to Eyes Sedai until Birgitte storms off.

She asks a boy servant to have Reene Harfor meet her in her apartments.





Chapter 8. Sea Folk and Kin.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne listens to Reene Harfor's suspicions of two people in the palace who arrived towards the end of her mother's rule. After Reene leaves, Elayne runs into Vandene, Kirstian, and Zarya. Vandene tells her that some of the Kin 'novices' have suspicions that Adeleas' murder and Ispan Shefar's death at Harlon Bridge was not the work of bandits, but rather one of three sisters: Careane, Sareitha, or Merilille. Vandene tries to convince Elayne that she or Nine'eev should be responsible for keeping an eye on these overzealous "novices" (Zarya, for example, is ninety years old). Nine'eev walks by, and indignantly insists it should not be her responsibility because of numerous other obligations, including the oath to teach the Atha'an Miere. Nine'eev decides Vandene will care for the novices and the group disperses.

Nine'eev leads Elayne to Reanne, on the way informing her that she has made gateways for eighteen of the Kin across various countries to try and find and collect any remaining Kin in Shawn'chin territories. They are both concerned that Igwayne's promise to allow any Kin to return to the tower will be problematic, since not all are powerful enough for the shawl. Still, they are afraid any Kin left in Shawn'chin lands will be captured and used as damane.

They reach Reanne, who is in the company of Alise and a captured Shawn'chin, Marli.  They have figured out that the sul'dam often cannot channel but can "almost" do so, and Elayne's plan lies in convincing them that they can channel, which could potentially shake up the entire Shawn'chin society. Rand left her twenty nine sul'dam with a'dam, and five damane. Reanne thinks that three damane may be ready to be unleashed. One, Alivia, is considerably stronger than Nine'eev and has been damane for four hundred years. The others speak against giving Alivia her freedom because she is so strong but Nine'eev favors the release of the damane, and when she says they will all be freed, LAN vocally agrees.





Chapter 9. A Cup of Tea.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne receives reports from Norry. Deposits of alum have been found on one of her estates which will make it easier to get loans from the bankers to fund the guard force Birgitte is building. He mentions an attack on Rand in the Sun Palace and no one really knows where he is now.

She is brought her afternoon meal. Afterward Die’lin reports merchants have spotted a large borderland army when she realizes someone slipped forkroot in her tea. She struggles trying to tell Die’lin , who then attempts to raise the alarm to the guards. Three assassins come in. Die’lin is able to occupy one and stall another until Doilin Mellar saves the day. Elayne succumbs to the forkroot while mentally calling for Birgitte.





Chapter 10. A Plan Succeeds.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


It is nighttime and Elayne wakes up in her bed, attended to by Aviendha, Birgitte, and Nine'eev.  She is happy to hear that Nine'eev Healed Die’lin, and she is alive. The Guardsman, Doilin Mellar, was unhurt. Nine'eev gave her herbs to treat the stomach cramps that forkroot induces, but she is still weak. Aviendha explains herbs were used because Nine'eev does not know "how to work her weaves against" forkroot. Nine'eev says Elayne must rest. Elayne believes that Die’lin proved her loyalty to her by throwing herself in harm's way to protect Elayne. Birgitte shows Elayne one of the knives they found. Nine'eev comments that Die’lin was lucky not to have been injured by that specific knife; it has poison on it and Die’lin would have been dead within seconds. After the attack, Elayne gives over to Birgitte and has a small bodyguard attending her constantly. Birgitte then wonders who should command the bodyguards. Elayne suggests Doilin Mellar, the Guardsman who saved her. Nine'eev protests but Birgitte comments that he is Andoran from near Baerlon, and he fought for Morgays during the Succession. The Warder agrees to raise him to commander. 

Igwayne had appointed that night for them to meet in Tel'aran'rhiod. They argue over who should enter the World of Dreams. Elayne wants to, but Nine'eev believes she is too weak to go. However, Elayne wins the argument and goes into Tel'aran'rhiod using the twisted stone ring ter'angreal. Nine'eev goes to her own rooms but on her way demands Birgitte and Aviendha watch over Elayne. Elayne drinks a goblet of wine, in which Nine'eev put some potent herbs to make the drinker drowsy, and goes to sleep. When she "wakes up" in Tel'aran'rhiod, Elayne is in the Grand Hall of the Royal Palace of Andor. Nine'eev is present, too, using a copy of the ter'angreal Elayne is using. Igwayne arrives, and they tell her about everything that happened that day. She has already heard about the attack on Rand. In return, she tells them that the Eyes Sedai in her army are refusing to accept novices because there are only sixteen Accepted to teach them everything. Igwayne mentions there is a new Accepted that Nine'eev should meet. Sharina is a grandmother and her name is Sharina Melloy. Nine'eev is startled by the name Sharina because "Sharina Sedai" was mentioned by LAN in Nine'eev's third pass through the Accepted test ter'angreal. Nine'eev explains only that there was a "Sharina Melloy" during her Accepted test and refuses to elaborate.

Igwayne also tells them that she intends every Eyes Sedai not sworn to the Three Oaths to do so.  Every Eyes Sedai. This leaves Nine'eev and Elayne outraged since they have realized taking the oaths on the oath rod must impact how long Eyes Sedai live, but Igwayne remains adamant. Suddenly, they stop talking as they see a man listening to them by the door. From his face, he could have been Rand's uncle!  He turns and runs down the hallway. They pursue him, but to no avail. Then they hear doors slam in the opposite corner of the Hall and they suppose that somebody else also eavesdropped since doors do not swing closed by themselves in Tel'aran'rhiod (see below).



Point of view: Asne Zerameen.


Asne and Chesmal are in their house in Kaymlin. Asne does not want to talk to Chesmal, because the only thing the latter can do is brag about her part in questioning Tamra Ospenya and how she persuaded the Red Ajah to murder Sierin Vayu. Eldrith returns much later than expected. Chesmal is furious because of this, but does not say anything harsh, as Eldrith is the leader of their group in place of Moghedien, who they think has deserted them. On the Forsaken's orders, they stayed in Samara even after the Prophet moved his residence to Amadicia. They were forced to flee when Eldrith's Warder, Kennit, discovered where they were through a slip in her mask of the bond and found them, meaning to kill them. They decided to go to Kaymlin to take their chances and hope Elayne and Nine'eev came there. Temaile comes in and reports that Nine'eev and Elayne are together in the Palace in  Tel'aran'rhiod. She also mentions a man eavesdropping. However, she supposes a third person to be here.



Point of view: Mili Skane.


Mili Skane has named herself the Lady Shiaine Avarhin. She recalls how Willim Avarhin and his daughter were impoverished nobles living in a farmhouse; she killed them and took the daughter's name. Falion is currently her maid. Shiaine believes her own failure is deeply buried, so deep that everyone will forget it.  Dahveed Hanlon enters the room, and she asks if the plan succeeded. He replies, showing off the lions on his shoulders, "You are looking at the Captain of the Queen's Bodyguard."





Chapter 11. Ideas of Importance.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand opens a gateway into the attic of the Royal Palace. Min is with him. Rand finds that these days it is becoming difficult for him to hold siedeen as it makes him tremendously sick. In fact, Lews Therin begs him to release it. Rand is disguised as an incredibly ugly man with a very unattractive wart on his nose, using a Mask of Mirrors. Min wants him to go see Elayne and Aviendha, but he refuses. He wants to talk to Nine'eev and Mat. They creep downstairs, but run into Reene Harfor. Min tells her that "Nuli" is supposed to give something to Nine'eev Sedai immediately. Mistress Harfor "dislikes the looks of Nuli." Min tells Mistress Harfor to lead Nuli to Nine'eev, and then runs away. As they walk through passages, Rand can feel there are several women channeling even though Harfor tells him there are only five Eyes Sedai present. Rand wonders about the rumor of an army with one hundred Eyes Sedai heading to Kaymlin.  Rand thinks of Mat, and there is a flash of color that resembles Mat's face. 



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev is giving a lesson to Talaan while Zaida and six other Windfinders watch. Nine'eev is glad that Renaile is not among the women present; she is the worst. Nine'eev fumes that Vandene refuses to give lessons, with the excuse that Kirstian and Zarya are keeping her occupied. Careane gave lessons the day before. Sareitha Tomares was supposed to be the teacher that day, but she slipped out of the Royal Palace on "important business".  Nine'eev attacks Talaan and manages to Shield her. The next round, Talaan shields Nine'eev. When Talaan is about to release her shield and weaves of Air around the Eyes Sedai, Zaida tells her to wait. They want to find out if Nine'eev can break through the shield; she had commented earlier that only people much stronger than their captor in the Power can break through shields. When Nine'eev begins to grow terrified, Zaida threatens to turn her upside down. Nine'eev begins to search the shield frantically, searching for a soft spot. She finds one, but cannot break through. Finally, Zaida believes her and sets her free. Fuming, Nine'eev stalks out of the room, where she bumps into Alivia, who tells her Reanne Corly and other Kinswomen want her to have dinner with them. When Nine'eev refuses, Alivia hints that Corly's "offer" was more a demand, but Nine'eev refuses to hear a word of it. As Nine'eev continues to her rooms, Talaan runs up to her and begs her to let her go to the White Tower as a novice. She says that she wants to leave, because she is perpetually punished by members of her own family so as not to show favoritism. When Nine'eev does not know what to say and stammers a bit, Talaan takes it as a "yes" and runs away gleefully. LAN joins Nine'eev and they head to their rooms. Reene Harfor is waiting there with an ugly man, who names Mistress Thane and Cenn Booie, back in the Two Rivers. Nine'eev tells Reene to leave, and tells the man to tell her who he really is. Instead of replying, he turns into Rand. They ask if he is hiding. He replies that he is only until he can kill some men. Nine'eev tells him that Igwayne is the Amyrlin Seat and she has an army of three hundred Eyes Sedai. He asks if Mat is with Igwayne, and then staggers.  Nine'eev Delves him, but cannot touch the two evil wounds as they seem to be protected by a ward of siedeen.  Rand wants her to hold the access keys to the Choedan Kal while he kills those that tried to kill him, but she insists on going with him.





Chapter 12. A Lily in Winter.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Min finds Aviendha and Elayne, and after a long talk, they go to Rand. Birgitte forced Elayne and the others to be escorted by Guardswomen. Elayne is happy her Warder is focused, interviewing people and ordering more Guardswomen dresses, so she will not be too intent on what will happen when she meets Rand. On her inquiry, Vandene told her how to mask her Warder bond.  They enter Nine'eev's rooms, the Guardswomen guarding the door. Nine'eev and LAN are with Rand. Rand begins by telling them not to trust any Asha'man besides Narishma, Hopwil, and Flinn. (Unbeknownst to Rand, in an act of treachery, Mazrim Taim has already  added the names of these three Asha’man to the roll of Black Tower deserters.) He also apologizes for sending the sul'dam and damane to the palace. He believes Mat is with Igwayne, but Nine'eev and the rest don't tell him about Mat's predicament. He believes there are still Eyes Sedai in the White Tower who are his followers. 

Rand wants to leave immediately, so as not to attract danger to himself and his lovers, but the three women override him and, under the lame excuse "not to disturb Nine'eev and LAN", they take him to Elayne's rooms. They all ask him if they can bond him as their Warder. Shocked, he replies that he is already bonded by Alanna. Elayne retorts that this does not prevent them from bonding him, and he reluctantly agrees. They do so, and include Min by weaving Spirit around her and then bonding him. Now all of them can feel the pain he has been hiding, but also the fact that he loves all of them. Rand begins to leave, but Elayne stops him as she has one more request. Min and Aviendha leave the room, and Elayne requests his help in undoing the buttons of her dress.



Point of view: Min Farshaw.


Min and Aviendha exit the room. The two Guardswomen want to enter the room upon realizing that Elayne was alone with "Nuli." Min warns them against entering and Aviendha reminds them that they are sworn to obey Elayne. They walk down a hallway, trying to stay as far away from each other as possible. Min is horrified when she feels Elayne's and Rand's emotions as they are making love. She tries to block the feeling by using what Elayne taught her, but it does not work since she cannot channel. However, it does work with Aviendha. Finally, Min tells Aviendha she had a viewing: "She'll [Elayne] get with child from this, two of them. A boy and a girl; both healthy and strong." Min also wonders if she should tell Aviendha about what she saw about the Eye’eel. Aviendha would have Rand's babies, too, four of them, at the same time! However, there is something odd about them.  They will be perfectly healthy, but there is still something odd about them. They run into Birgitte, who through her bond can tell what Elayne is doing and feeling. She is outraged. However, Aviendha pleads that Birgitte not interrupt them, and they go to drink some oosquai.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne wakes up the next morning, happy. Rand has vanished. He left her a golden lily in full bloom.  She wonders where he could have gotten that in the heart of winter. She weaves a Keeping around it so it will stay forever fresh. She learned that weave from Moghedien. Later in the morning she comes to know that Nine'eev, LAN, and Alivia have vanished. They have taken the most powerful angreal and ter'angreal with them but Nine'eev left a note for Elayne with the ter'angreal they did not take.





Chapter 13. Wonderful News.






Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin.


Cadsuane is in the sun room of the Sun Palace, in Kai'rienne. Harine din Togara Two Winds and her Sailmistress, Derah din Selaan Rising Wave, are in her audience. Harine is demanding the return of her sister, Shalon. Cadsuane replies that she will be needed for questioning one more day. She is very annoyed with the Atha'an Miere, and also Lord Dobraine for griping about the bargain Rafela and Merana made with them. Daigian is present in a corner with Eben who she recently bonded. The five Eyes Sedai, Elza, Sarene, Nesune, Erian, and Beldeine appear nonchalant as they pretend to entertain themselves playing games. Cadsuane is methodically trying to figure out why they swore fealty to Rand, especially the Red sisters. 

Suddenly, Verin and Sorilea enter the room. Cadsuane notices Verin is wearing a flowery brooch.  The aged Wise One gives the Brown a small vial containing a potion that will make the drinker sleep. Too much, and the drinker will be placed in an eternal slumber. Cadsuane commands Sarene to take the Sea Folk back to their rooms. Sorilea tells Cadsuane that the last of the nineteen prisoners swore fealty to Rand last night. Cadsuane thinks of the time that she failed to root out the Black Ajah. Another failure was learning what Mworane was doing in Chachin too late.  Corele enters after a while and tells her that Damer Flinn Healed one of the stilled Eyes Sedai, Irgain. She is back to normal.  He wants to try to Heal the other sisters who were stilled by Rand: Sashalle and Ronaille. Irgain is also happily ready to swear fealty to Rand. Cadsuane had begun gathering sisters she could trust after noticing the strange events occurring in Shynarr. She has had Eyes-and-ears watching Sewan and Mworane for years, and they have not learned anything useful.

Jahar runs in and proclaims that Alanna has collapsed, unconscious. While Cadsuane and her retinue follow Jahar back to Alanna, Lord Dobraine intercepts Cadsuane to tell her Lady Caraline and Lord Darlin have disappeared from Lady Arilyn's palace. She dismisses him for now and they continue to Alanna's rooms, and try to Heal her, but nothing happens. Verin appears terrified.  Cadsuane knows there is nothing they can do, but wait.



Point of view: Demandred.


Demandred is frustrated that Moridin hasn't shown up yet. He is with Graendal, Osan'gar, and Aran'gar. He knows it is difficult for Semirhage to attend the meetings, but Mesaana should have shown up. He has an alliance with both of them, that they will only turn on one another when the others have been eliminated. He is also furious that Rand has been popping up in several villages since the failed attack on him in Kai'rienne. Aran'gar retorts by saying he and Osan'gar were responsible for watching him. She says that she has put her own "charge" fully under control.  She also comments that those who channel siedeen should be worried, as if Rand removes the "shadow" the Great Lord placed on siedeen, the Great Lord would begin to distrust those who channeled that half of the One Power. Demandred notes that she is wearing a simple golden ring. He is confused, as "simple" never really fit Graendal.  Moridin walks in and says that the Great Lord still trusts the male Chosen. Now that the Dark One has appointed him Nae’bliss, only he can access the True Power. Cyndane, who is trotting complacently behind him, says that Rand has two of the access key ter'angreal which will allow him to use the Choedan Kal. Everyone is very worried. Demandred thought Cyndane was Lanfear, but then Mesaana told him she is weaker than Lanfear was. Moridin says that they will know Rand's exact location when he touches the Choedan Kal. His orders are to find him and capture him, or even kill him if necessary.





Chapter 14. What a Veil Hides.






Point of view: Tuon.


The Victory of Kidron sails along the Sea of Storms en route to Ebou Dar. The Corenne has officially begun. Selucia, Tuon's so'jhin and chief maid, shaves her head and dresses her. Tuon sees an albatross, an omen of victory. Selucia was a cradle-gift to Tuon, she had spent the first twenty-five years of her life training to be her nursemaid. When Tuon came of age, Selucia chooses to become her chief maid, but also her Shadow. In secret, Selucia is also a trained fighter and her bodyguard. Two of Tuon's siblings are dead, and two more disgraced and made da'covale. Tuon's previous Soe'feia, or Truthspeaker, Neferi, died in a fall two years ago. For some reason, the Empress named her current Truthspeaker, Anath, instead of Neferi's planned successor.

Selucia prepares to place her lace cap on her, but Tuon asks for a veil instead. This marks her as just one of the Blood, not the Daughter of the Nine Moons. She feels almost sei'mosiev because she ordered a damane beaten last night and now regrets it. She must make amends to restore sei'taer. She goes to the second cabin where six of her damane and their sul'dam await, including Lidya, the damane she had beaten. She had ordered Lidya to tell her future and had her caned when she did not like what she heard. She tells Ianelle, the sul'dam holding her leash to treat Lidya's wounds and give treats to her until they are gone. The other damane are Dali, Dani, Charral, Sera, and Mylen. Mylen is Tuon's favorite. When she bought her at Shon Kifar, she was nearly dead, refusing to eat or drink. Tuon successfully trained her, and now it is nearly impossible to believe that she was once Eyes Sedai. Catrona now holds her leash, and she and Tuon agree that Mylen is a perfect damane.

As Tuon leaves her cabins, Musenge, captain of Deathwatch Guards, notes her veil and assigns only two guards. There are also a dozen Ogier Gardeners standing guard. Yuril, her secretary and the Hand in charge of her Seekers, bows and Ronde Macura prostrates herself. In Tanchico she begged to be taken into service and provides lots of information about the Eyes Sedai she hates. Tuon goes to the quarterdeck where Captain Tehan and Anath are. Anath chides Tuon for wearing the veil over a little thing like beating a damane. Tuon recalls that Algwyn, the last man to sit on the Crystal Throne almost a thousand years ago, let his Soe'feia get away with slapping him in public. Tuon tells Anath that she does not need a penance; Anath's last penance left Tuon crying for days. She says that High Lady Suroth is to be commended for her success, but she is to be watched for ambition. Anath says she is sure Suroth is loyal. Tuon then says that she must make contact with the Dragon Reborn so that he can kneel before the Crystal Throne before Tarmon Gai'don according to the Prophecies of the Dragon. Anath is pleased, but tells Tuon to be careful not to let him learn how dangerous she is to him. They approach the harbor of Ebou Dar.





Chapter 15. In Need of a Bellfounder.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat is in Aludra's wagon, which is part of Valan Luca's show. He is trying to convince her to show him the secrets of fireworks. In order to persuade her, he tells her that the chapter house in Tanchico was destroyed by the Shawn'chin, and everyone present were taken da'covale. Aludra replies by saying she will tell him all her secrets - "even ones that will make you blush, yes?" - if he can figure out why she needs a bellfounder. He reflects on his relationship with Tylin, which has her more in control of his life than he would like. Mat would like to escape from Tylin and Ebou Dar but hasn't been able to come up with a plan that will work yet. He is still recovering from a broken leg when a wall fell on him during the Shawn'chin attack.

He leaves the wagon, and fetches Olver, who is chatting with five women by a carriage. He thinks of Rand and Pairin, and experiences a flash of color in his head.  Luca is laughing with Thom and Beslan, but when Mat approaches he scowls and leaves. Even though he is married, Mat can see that he flirts with every women around. The foursome head back to the Tarasin Palace. Suddenly, the dice start rolling in Mat's head.





Chapter 16. An Unexpected Encounter.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat walks back to Ebou Dar with Thom, Beslan, and Olver. Inside the walls, the city is packed to bursting with Shawn'chin, not only Deathwatch Guards, the Blood, and sul'dam and damane, but regular citizens, such as farmers.  Mat warns Beslan against doing anything that would end up having him and Tylin executed and their heads displayed at the gates. Thom and the prince take Olver to his lessons with the pretty Riselle and Mat walks along the docks. He feels that he is being watched, but ignores it, as he is wearing ridiculously tight clothes, given to him by Tylin, and assumes that people are staring at him because of his clothes. There have been rumors that the Shawn'chin had a fight with some Asha'man a week ago. He heads back to the Tarasin Palace and remembers that the High Lady Suroth is living there. While he is in a deserted side-alley, the gholam appears and attacks him. Again, Mat uses the foxhead medallion to burn the creature several times. A man's shout diverts the gholam's attention and it flees. Mat walks up to the man, who introduces himself as Noalle Charin. He does not have a place to stay for the night, so Mat invites him to the palace, where he can find some space with the surviving Redarms.





Chapter 17. Pink Ribbons.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.




Mat and Noalle Charin cross the Mol Hara square together, noticing the statue of long-dead Queen Nariene. They return to the Tarasin Palace, and in order to avoid being questioned, they head in through a stable gate. The Palace that was once Tylin's is now only hers in name. The High Lady Suroth Sabelle Meldarath has taken residence there, as well as several other high Shawn'chin of the High Blood. In a yard they pass while headed into the palace, several sul'dam are exercising their damane, one of them is Teslyn Baradon. It has been a month and a half, Mat recalls, since the Shawn'chin took Ebou Dar. Mat takes the strange old man to the surviving Redarms, and they welcome him to stay with them for as long as he likes - at least after they discover he saved Mat's life. Mat orders his men to find Tahlmahness and leave Ebou Dar on a ship, but every single one of them refuses to. Infuriated, Mat stalks upstairs to take a bath before Tylin finds him and stumbles into Jeweleen. He tells the thief-taker to leave, but he refuses, too!  Mat heads directly to Tylin's rooms, and as he opens the door, he is surprised not only by who is present, but that the dice in his head have come to such a thunderous stop as never before, though, it seems, nothing happened. Tylin attempts to dismiss him, but Mat is so surprised by the sudden end of the dice rolling, he just stands there. In the room with Tylin are Suroth, Tuon, Selucia, and the mysterious Anath, who barely has the all-too-familiar Shawn'chin drawl.  Tuon takes one look at him, and then seems to drink him in, inspecting him to the finest detail.  Too quickly, she offers to buy him as da'covale. Tylin refuses, saying he is a free man. Mat snorts, wondering really how free he is when he is on a bed with Tylin. The ladies leave, and as she passes by, Mat tells Tylin of the gholam. She leaves, and soon a maid comes in with pink ribbons to dress Mat in. He groans.





Chapter 18. An Offer.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

There are rumors of a man found one night with his throat ripped out. Mat can immediately tell that this is the gholam, searching - and finding - nourishment. Mat resents how Olver forces him to play Snakes and Foxes every single night. Thom and Beslan sneak out of the Palace too often for Mat's liking, and he believes they are up to some mischief. He also notices that the Shawn'chin are continuing to stream into Ebou Dar with no signs of slowing down. There are also several rumors about the Dragon Reborn, ranging from being killed by Eyes Sedai, captured in Illian, to he has knelt before the White Tower. Of course, as Mat thinks about Rand, those strange flashes of color appear in his head. These days he tries very hard not to think of the other two tahveeren just to avoid the colors. He wants to escape Ebou Dar with Valan Luca and his circus, just to stay close to Aludra and learn her secrets. Mat goes to The Wandering Woman, which now houses high-ranking Shawn'chin military officers to the brim. He asks Setalle Anan to hide some clothes and gold for him. He plans to move his gold little by little, so Tylin would never guess that he was planning to leave her. She agrees, and he wanders the city, searching for a bellfounder. He finds one, Calwyn Sutoma, but he is shooed away because the bellfounder knows nothing of Illuminators and is trying to create the biggest bell made in the history of the world, to celebrate the victory of the Empress over Ebou Dar. Mat shakes his head, thinking how wrong it is for a man to commemorate the sacking of his own city! One day, when Mat enters his rooms, Tuon is looking at his ashandarei. She says that she will buy it from him, offering ten times what he paid. He responded by saying that the price wasn't gold, and that only a fool would pay it one time, let alone ten. He goes back to the Wandering Woman to check on his stash of gold.





Chapter 19. Three Women.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


At The Wandering Woman, Mat meets Marah, Setalle Anan's daughter. He wonders why she is now so cold towards him when she was so friendly before. She is an authoritative figure, quite unlike her mother, in that she snaps and gets cross at two of her own siblings. One taunts her, saying she is so upset because her younger sister is already married. In the kitchen, he is given food by Enid, who is considerably warmer than Setalle's daughter. Suddenly the innkeeper bustles in through a back door, sending the cooks away and telling Enid to bar the door to the kitchens and not let anyone - Shawn'chin or no - in. There is a woman with her. When everyone is shoved out of the kitchens, the lady pushes back the deep hood of her cloak and reveals that she is Joline Maza, Eyes Sedai of the Green Ajah. Suddenly they hear Enid shouting, and some stomping. Someone is coming to the kitchens, and has pushed Enid aside. Hurriedly, Mat grabs the outraged Eyes Sedai, sits down on a bench, places her on his lap, and pretends to passionately kiss her. Egeanin comes into view. She demands the innkeeper to give her her best room. Anan counters that all of her rooms - never mind the best, or the worst! - have been taken up by Shawn'chin officers. Mat is surprised that the burly man next to her is an Illianer, and thinks he looks familiar, but does not realise that it is Bayle Domon, his head shaved in the way of so'jhin. Egeanin is now a Shawn'chin Captain.  As soon as they leave, Joline clings to him and starts weeping. She is afraid that she will be seen and caught by sul'dam and made damane. Setalle agrees to hide her in the inn's cellar. Somehow, Mat finds himself agreeing to help her escape Ebou Dar along with himself. 

Back at the Tarasin Palace, he creeps into the damane quarters and locates Tessi, the former Eyes Sedai once known as Teslyn Baradon. Once again, he agrees to help her escape, but she says that he must also free Edesina Azzedin. As he creeps down again, he bumps into Tuon. He gives her the feeble excuse that he was giving a Windfinder a sweet. She seems to believe him. He resolves to talk to Thom and Jeweleen to get some ideas on how to arrange an escape.





Chapter 20. Questions of Treason.






Point of view: Bethamin Zeami.


Bethamin Zeami inspects the damane kennels. While looking over damane and their quarters, she annotates suggestions for further care and training. Zushi and Tessi require different intervention. For Zushi she thinks she may ask her to be lodged with a Shawn'chin born damane for a more intimate training, but for Tessi she suggests harder training and variable rewards for her in order to break her spirit. After her inspection, Bethamin goes into Ebou Dar planning to shop. On the way to her inn to collect some coins she reflects on finding Renna and Seta held by a'dam. She also realizes that her ability to see weaves and gauge the strength of a channeler means she would be made damane if she was tested again. She also thinks of the celebrations that will take place when Tuon removes her veil and takes on her role as the Daughter of the Nine Moons.

A Seeker for Truth is in her room and has gone through her belongings. Almurat Mor has settled on reading her diary. He enlists her aide in attempting to find treason in the events of Fal'meh, Tanchico, and those currently underway in Ebou Dar. He asks her to report to him everything she can on who Egeanin Tamarath sees and says. When she protests that Egeanin is now of the Blood and would not welcome her advances, Mor explains that Egeanin had admitted to killing a sul'dam to him and he believes Egeanin was involved with the man who killed the High Lord Turok. He also suspects that High Lady Suroth is involved and needs to find proof, and because Egeanin was raised to the Blood by Suroth, he feels she may have the evidence he wants. Bethamin agrees, knowing she has no choice.





Chapter 21. A Matter of Property.






Point of view: Egeanin Tamarath.

Egeanin is in her room at the Wandering Woman pondering her options. She knows the Seeker still has suspicions about her activities in Tanchico but she will not do anything that will allow him to take her for questioning. Her so'jhin and lover Bayle Domon is with her regretting that they did not dispose of the ter'angreal as they promised Nine'eev but instead presented it as a  gift for the Empress, which earned her promotion to the Blood. He suggests that she free him so they can marry and he can take up smuggling again, which she refuses to consider, especially the smuggling.

Bethamin knocks on their door and is allowed to enter. Egeanin captured Bethamin in Tanchico and found that an a'dam worked on her the same as it did on a damane but eventually freed her instead of turning her in and causing an uproar in the Empire. She reports her meeting with the Seeker and that she is to spy on Egeanin for him. Bethamin explains the conspiracy the Seeker has come up with: even though there is nothing of the truth in it there could be dire consequences for Egeanin.

After Bethamin leaves Egeanin starts to write out the manumission for Bayle but he refuses to accept it since she wishes him to leave the city. Bayle insists that he can find a crew to help them starting with Mat Cauthon (whom he had recognised in the kitchen) along with Thomdril Merrilin. Bayle leaves to try to find Mat.





Chapter 22. Out of Thin Air.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is in Far Madding, intent on killing his enemies. He has caught sight of Manel Rochaid and is following him. Rand recalls that Raolin Darksbane was born in the city; Yurian Stonebow was born some time later. Lews Therin rages in Rand's head that they are both fools to have traveled to Far Madding, as neither men nor women can channel the Power while in the city. Rand smiles grimly as he thinks, They [his enemies] were fools. He left discreet suggestions and hints in the Stone of Tear, the Aesdaishar Palace in Chachin, and other famous places, that led to Far Madding. Thinking they were on his trail, the gullible Asha'man immediately went to the city. As Rand follows Rochaid, he stumbles into an Aielman who is, as apparent from his cloths and behavior, following the Way of the Leaf. Lews Therin whispers that Rand has destroyed them, and also comments, "How many will we three kill before the end, I wonder."  Rochaid turns into a narrow alleyway, so narrow that the only way to proceed is in single file. Rand follows him, and walks into the trap. Rochaid tries to attack him, but Rand, using Aiels'  bare-hand martial arts, breaks his windpipe. Raefar Kisman is on one of the low roofs, and leaps down with a sword as Rand is on top of Rochaid. Perhaps sensing something is wrong, or because of his tahveeren luck, Rand rolls away from the weak body, and Kisman, too late, plunges his sword into a surprised Rochaid. They both hear the Street Guards approaching, and Kisman tells Rand that if they are found, both of them will be executed, so they agree to call a truce. Kisman runs one way, Rand the other. He is sure that the Far Madding Counsels would not harm the Dragon Reborn, but would definitely hand him over to the White Tower as they have accepted Elaida's amnesty.



Point of view: Raefar Kisman.


Kisman is furious with Rochaid. The latter was supposed to have waited for everyone to arrive, but he had wanted ultimate glory in killing the Dragon Reborn. The only thing that he had gotten was death. Kisman, he tells himself, wants power, not glory. He recalls how the M'Hael was furious when he ordered his attack on Rand in Kai'rienne and discovered that they had been revealed and their plan failed. He had given specific orders that Far Madding would be their last chance. Suddenly, Dashiva had vanished. Demandred had then ordered them to kill Rand, and not let the M'Hael know of it. Moridin had told them to kill Rand as a last resort, but to bring his possessions to him.  Kisman is brought back from his world of thoughts when he feels pain through a sudden slash on his arm.  The wound is black, and feels like it is burning. Kisman tries to run, to go to safety, but it is too late. Blackness approaches, and he falls.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand returns to the inn he is staying in. He tells LAN, who is in the common rooms, what happened, and gathers Nine'eev, Alivia, and Min to his room. There, he tells them to pack as lightly as possible. They are leaving. He sits down to draw pictures of the four rogue Asha'man, and finds that his pictures look life-like. He was never good at drawing. However, Lews Therin was. That fact should have bothered him. Should have. But it didn't.



Point of view: Slayer.


Slayer steps out of Tel'aran'rhiod and finds himself in a bedroom of an inn, remembering one of his previous missions:  killing the Black Ajah sisters Amico Nagoyin and Joiya Byir, who were being held in the Stone of Tear and expected him to break them free, and that he enjoyed the killing. He becomes Luc. There are two figures on the bed, and he promptly stabs them with his poisoned daggers. He likes to see who he kills, as a general rule, so he turns them over, and is disappointed that they are not who he was expecting (i.e. Rand, his nephew,  and Min). He returns to Tel'aran'rhiod and meets his employer. He can see nothing of the employer except that he is a man. Slayer believes that the man must be one of the Chosen, as they are one of the special few who know how and where to find him. His employer tells him to wait for more instructions. Slayer agrees, and Travels to another place. The only thing he likes more than murdering people is killing wolves. He turns into Isam and begins the hunt.





Chapter 23. To Lose the Sun.






Point of view: Shalon.

Shalon is with Harine din Togara Two Winds and her swordmaster Moad, following Cadsuane to Far Madding to find Rand. There are other Eyes Sedai in the party along with some Warders including Eben Hopwil. Harine is complaining as usual but insisted on going to find Rand since she has a bargain with him that allows her to stay near him. Cadsuane has required Shalon to spy on Harine because it was found out she and Ailil Riatin were pillow friends, a serious offence to the Sea Folk for a married woman. Shalon doesn't understand that it is Alanna's bond to Rand that is guiding them to their destination.

As they near the city, first the Asha'man and then all of the women channelers lose the ability to channel due to a ter'angreal that lies at the heart of the city. As the party enters, all of the men have their swords peace bonded, wrapped in wires with seals so the sword cannot be drawn without breaking the seals. Shalon is reacting badly to not being able to feel the source.





Chapter 24. Among the Counsels.






Point of view: Shalon.

As they reach the center of Far Madding, Shalon is still affected by the absence of the Source. Cadsuane arranges to meet with Aleis Barsalla, the head of the Counsel that rules the city. Alanna is trying to leave to find Rand, but Cadsuane prevents it. Shalon notices that Jahar is missing and wonders where he went. After climbing up many flights of stairs they reach a balcony looking down on the ter'angreal that prevents channeling in and near the city. Aleis welcomes Harine and Shalon but not Cadsuane.

Verin announces that a man has channeled and down below the women are busy using the ter'angreal to identify the location. Verin uses the disturbance to give warning against offending the Dragon Reborn since the ter'angreal is no defense against large armies. Cadsuane has manipulated Aleis into providing the party with lodgings in her palace. Harine finally acknowledges Shalon's distress and promises to not leave her alone.





Chapter 25. Bonds.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand has moved to a different inn to avoid the Asha'man traitors he is hunting. He is playing the flute, a melody from Lews Therin's memories which Min doesn't care for. They are worried about what Alanna may do since Rand can tell she is in the city. Min is upset because a viewing she had of Alivia means that she will kill Rand, although it is really that she will help him die. When Alanna knocks on their door Min lays down close to Rand to show what her status is with him. Cadsuane enters followed by Alanna.

Cadsuane leaves and Alanna asks Rand what he did that left her unconscious for three days. He tells her he decided to be bonded by someone that asked permission first which angers Alanna. She tells him that all of the sisters from Dumai's Wells have now sworn to him including those that were stilled since Damer figured out how to heal them. Rand orders Alanna to return to Kai'rienne and then take some other Eyes Sedai to try to settle the rebels in Haddon Mirk.

Point of view: Verin Mathwin.

Verin is using the name Eadwina while she is in Far Madding since her real name would be recognized which she wishes to avoid since she was exiled from the city long ago. She returns from traveling around the city to find Elza confronting Cadsuane. Elza is angry that Alanna is gone so they can no longer be sure of finding Rand. Cadsuane is worried because Rand is losing his humanity, turning to stone as she puts it. Verin was prepared to overdose Cadsuane with a sleeping potion but changes her mind after hearing Cadsuane's objective with Rand.





Chapter 26. Expectation.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne is with Igwayne in tel'aran'rhiod, visiting Emmond's Field. The village has grown into a town and changed much in the two years since she left. Elayne suggests that Igwayne visit after the rebel Eyes Sedai travel to Tar Vawlyn. Igwayne decides she doesn't wish to try to convince everyone she knows there that she is the Amylin Seat. Igwayne is concerned about rumors of Eyes Sedai swearing fealty to Rand.

She leaves the world of dreams to find it is already sunrise and wakes Aviendha. After getting dressed Elayne sits down to a bland and boring breakfast since word is out that she is pregnant. Her chief clerk Halwin Norry arrives and lets Elayne know that she has received an advance on the alum deposits found on one of her estates and can now afford to expand the guard. Reene enters and informs Elayne she has found a couple more spies for other houses, which they leave alone in order to use them for disinformation.

Merilille returns from her meeting with the four Borderlander rulers, which have near 200,000 soldiers altogether. The rulers wish to meet with Elayne and she wishes to use them to gain the throne of Andor and to make sure they are not a danger to Rand. They plan to leave right away for a meeting.





Chapter 27. To Surprise Queens and Kings.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.

Elayne travels with Merilille Ceandevin to meet with the Borderlander rulers that are near Andor in Braem Wood. Aviendha and Birgitte are against her going without more arrangements for her safety being made. Elayne chooses to meet the rulers as an Eyes Sedai rather than as Daughter-heir and only brings Aviendha and Birgitte with her. Some Shienaran soldiers meet them outside of camp and assure their safety until they leave. At the camp Elayne meets with Ethenielle Kirukon Materasu, Tenobia si Bashere Kazadi, Easar Togita and Paitar Nachiman. They are looking for the Dragon Reborn and hope Elayne knows where he is. Elayne plans to have the Borderland army move into Andor so that other noble houses will unite with Elayne to repel them as invaders since they won't know Elayne has already negotiated a truce. Tenobia expresses a strong interest in meeting up with her uncle, Davram t'Ghaline Bashere.

With the agreement made Elayne weaves a gateway near to Kaymlin so they can return, after putting some distance from the Borderlander camp. At the palace Norry insists on speaking to Elayne even though she is almost falling asleep. There are four armies approaching Kaymlin totaling twenty to thirty thousand men. Elayne orders all food outside the walls to be purchased and brought in and mercenaries that don't join the guard to leave the city.





Chapter 28. News in a Cloth Sack.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Tylin and Suroth leave the palace to tour Altara so Mat plots with Thom, Jeweleen, and Beslan to escape from Ebou Dar. He has a challenging task just getting himself, Thom, Jeweleen and the Redarms away to Luca's travelling show. But he also promised to get Teslyn, Joline and Edesina out of the city also and the Shawn'chin have made it nearly impossible for anyone that can channel to leave the city.

Mat starts by asking Jeweleen to get him an a'dam, three damane dresses and one sul'dam dress. Jeweleen protests of course that he is not a thief, but agrees since he wants to leave with one of Suroth's da'covale.  Tuon continues to stalk Mat but doesn't speak to him. The servants understand what he is about and try to hamper his efforts. Mat continues to receive information that a gholam has been killing every night, so he tries to speed up his departure. Beslan plans to start an uprising against the Shawn'chin as a distraction to help Mat's escape. Unfortunately no one is having luck getting the things they need especially women to impersonate sul'dam. Finally Jeweleen gets the dresses and the a'dam but nothing else is ready. 





Chapter 29. Another Plan.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Mat is meeting with Joline in the basement of the Wandering Woman, still trying to get his plan together to help her escape from Ebou Dar. Joline does not want to wear an a'dam but finally Setalle Anan convinces her that she must. They test using Setalle as a sul'dam but it doesn't work, Joline is not able to go anywhere with an a'dam on her neck.

Outside the inn Bayle Domon catches up to Mat and talks him into returning to the inn. Bayle takes Mat to his room where he introduces him to Egeanin. Egeanin asks his help along with Thom and Jeweleen who she knows. At Bayle's urging she finally explains to Mat the problem she has with a suspicious Seeker and her need to get out of the city. Mat says he needs three sul'dam which Egeanin says she can supply.

Later Mat talks over the new plan with Thom and Jeweleen. They agree to leave the next night since they now have everything they need. As he lay in bed that night he can't sleep for wondering what could go wrong and what he can do if it does.





Chapter 30. Cold, Fat Raindrops.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Everything is finally ready for Mat and his companions to leave Ebou Dar, except for anything unexpected that arises, which is what worries him. Mat knows that he is fated to die and live again, but he suspects that event has happened already. Olver, his servants and some of the Redarms will leave in the afternoon and wait near the road. Beslan figured out what was happening and insists on helping with a diversion which is to happen after midnight. Rain begins and he goes to his room to wait for night to fall and the next part of his plan to start.

Thom and one of the sul'dam will take Joline Maza from the Wandering Woman and meet him at the city gate. Jeweleen will spirit Thera out of the palace. Mat heads off to the courtyard to meet Egeanin, Bayle Domon and the other sul'dam, Seta and Renna.





Chapter 31. What the Aelfinn Said.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.

Matrim Cauthon accompanies Egeanin Tamarath, Seta Zarbey, Renna Emain, and Bayle Domon to the damane kennels. Mat ducks into one of the Sea Folk's rooms and quickly gags Nestelle din Sakura South Star. There he makes a Bargain with her. He will release her if she waits three hours before releasing the rest of the captured Sea Folk in the kennels and then cross the harbor to free more captured Sea Folk. They will then take back their ships and sail back out to sea. Mat opens the a'dam and shows her how to open it a number of times before he is satisfied and sneaks back out of the room. He nearly runs into the der'sul'dam, who is confronting Egeanin and Renna, who has an a'dam around Teslyn Baradon's neck. Egeanin manages to talk her way out of the situation and Mat gets away unnoticed.

He goes back to Queen Tylin Quintara Mitsobar's rooms, to find that she has arrived back from her trip with the High lady Suroth Sabelle Meldarath early. After sharing a passionate kiss, Tylin tells Mat that she knows that he is trying to escape but she wants one last night with him. Mat explains that he cannot wait and offers to let her come with him but she refuses. She tells him to tie her up and stow her under the bed so she is not suspected as an accomplice. After completing the task, he runs to the stable yard. He hears no one inside and is about to walk in when Tuon Athaem Kore Paendrag speaks up behind him saying that she will not allow his escape. He then goes to grab her and they have a brief scuffle. She begins to smile as they fight. She stands back out of Mat's range but is caught from behind by Noalle Charin, who pins her arms and clamps her mouth before she can scream, even though she didn't try to scream for any help earlier. They then tie Tuon up.

Jeweleen Sandar arrives with Amathera Aelfdene Casmir Lounault, who has been made da'covale. She prostrates herself in front of Tuon when she sees her and has to be taken out of sight. Finally Egeanin arrives with Edesina Azzedin leashed to Seta Zarbey, Teslyn, Renna, and Domon. Egeanin sees Tuon for the first time and sinks to her knees in fright, exclaiming that it is punishable by death to lay hands on the Daughter of the Nine Moons. Everyone else drops to their knees to push their faces to the floor. Mat realizes that the Aelfinn spoke the truth. Aloud he exclaims that Tuon will be his wife, Egeanin is shocked that Mat would say such a thing and tells him so. Mat repeats that she is his wife, the bloody Daughter of the Nine Moons is my wife! Selucia enters the room and is afraid of what Mat is doing with Tuon. Mat tries to calm Selucia down. Selucia in turn promises to obey Mat if he doesn't hurt her mistress. Noalle asks Mat if he wants to stow both ladies in the hayloft. Mat disagrees and decides to take them with him. Tuon, who showed no expression with the initial exchange finally smiles, as if at some secret only she knows. Mat begins to shiver.





Chapter 32. A Portion of Wisdom.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand has been visiting inns for the last week trying to find the renegade Asha'man that tried to kill him in Kai'rienne. Rand waits in an inn and hears a few rumors while waiting for Torval to appear, but it is only an older man that resembles Torval. Verin finds Rand in the street and tells him that the Shawn'chin are moving toward Illian again so his earlier fight hasn't slowed them down very much. Rand decides to accept Cadsuane as his advisor and asks Verin to tell her so. Finally deciding that he has spent enough time looking for his foes he decides to leave Far Madding tomorrow.

The innkeeper has a message for Rand but due to customs in Far Madding she waits for Min to return and gives it to her. The anonymous note appears to be from someone in power in Far Madding that wants the Dragon Reborn to be gone from the city. The note lets Rand know that Kisman is dead and that Torval and Gedwyn are at a house on Blue Carp Street near the Illian gate.





Chapter 33. Blue Carp Street.






Point of view: Min Farshaw.

Rand realizes the note he received about where to find Torval and Gedwyn must be a trap but he isn't worried. Min tries to discourage him from going but Nine'eev and LAN will be helping Rand. After Rand has been gone for a while, Min leaves the room to find Cadsuane so she can help Rand.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand, LAN and Nine'eev scout out the area around Zeram's bootmaking shop and decide it must be possible to enter the apartment from the roof, if they can get up there. Rand spots two men heading for the stairs to the apartment and a gust of wind help him identify them as Gedwyn and Torval. Rand asks Nine'eev to lift LAN and him with the Well of saidar in her belt, which she agrees to do with reservations. Nine'eev lifts Rand up, then lifts LAN. They enter through a trapdoor in the roof which lets them into an attic. Another trapdoor lets them into the apartment living quarters where he finds two bodies with black swollen faces, one of which is probably Gedwyn.

Rand recognizes the effect of the ruby-hilted dagger and whispers to LAN that Fain is here and he must have sent the letter. As they dart into the bedroom, Fain almost catches Rand with the dagger. Fain orders another man, Toram Riatin, to take care of LAN. Fain uses a special ability he has to repeat an event from the recent past. Rand sees Torval and Gedwyn coming up the stairs but understands it as a cover for an attack by Fain and responds with his own sword attack. Fain is wounded and runs away. In the meantime LAN has finished off Toram and they head to the roof to escape.

They reach the roof but as they move across the slates, LAN's boot slips. Rand catches his wrist, but LAN is too heavy and they both slide off the roof to the alley below.





Chapter 34. Winter's Heart/Chapter 34.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Nine'eev is waiting for Rand and LAN to return to the roof after they deal with Gedwyn and Torval. Suddenly a flood of guardsmen appear and stop in front of the house where the men are. As she moves to create a distraction, she is grabbed from behind by Cadsuane. Min is with her and can tell through the bond that Rand is hurt and probably unconscious. Nine'eev wishes to return to see if LAN is ok but with help from Alivia she is hauled away. Nine'eev thought she could get away with a small amount of channeling to help Rand and LAN, but she was wrong and now Rand and LAN are caught.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand wakes up in darkness and in pain. He is in a small cell and nightmares from when he was stuffed in a box by Eyes Sedai begin to haunt him. He is afraid he will be in the cell until Eyes Sedai from Elaida come to collect him. He begins to recite the list of women who died because of him starting with Mworane and determining to be as hard as he needs to be.

Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin.

Cadsuane is on her way to talk with the Counsels about Rand. Min reports on Rand's condition, which is worsening and Nine'eev comments that the plan won't work. They enter the chamber where the thirteen Counsels meet and Aleis Barsalla says they are not welcome. Cadsuane requests that they let her take the Dragon Reborn off their hands but is rebuffed. Cadsuane mentions that the three men with her, Damer, Jahar and Eben are Asha'man. This still has no affect on the Counsel so Cadsuane channels using her Hummingbird to move the coronet from Aleis on to the floor. Nine'eev then moves the coronet back but they pretend it was Damer that channeled. Aleis gives in.





Chapter 35. With the Choedan Kal.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor Setting: Far Madding, Shadar Logoth.


Rand and company leave Far Madding via the Kaymlin Gate. He feels he is now harder than ever. Nine'eev has the access keys. As they leave Far Madding, Rand can sense the True Source again and seizes siedeen. Lews Therin sighs with relief. Harine will barely let him out of her sight, but Cadsuane makes it clear that he must uphold his bargain with her.

They ride north and Rand retrieves Callandor from where he hid it. He announces that he intends to cleanse siedeen. He and Nine'eev will link and use the Choedan Kal. Lews Therin shrieks that the Choedan Kal were never tested, and the other Eyes Sedai try to argue with him, but Cadsuane just asks where he plans to do it. He says Shadar Logoth and opens a gateway to a sparse, hilly forest just north of it. Cadsuane sends LAN, Nethan, and Bassane to scout and gathers the other Eyes Sedai. Alivia comes over and takes the bracelet and rings and the jewelry set from Nine'eev.

Rand and Nine'eev sit down, and as Rand seizes siedeen, he sees the image of a face that is almost familiar. Taking the access keys, Nine'eev iniitates the link with Rand, then passes control back to him. Rand forms a conduit of saidar, then begins funneling siedeen through it, filtering the taint into Shadar Logoth.



Point of view: Elza Penfell.


Cadsuane notes that the amount of saidar being channeled will be felt all the way to Tar Vawlyn, and probably all over the world as well. Merise and Elza link Jahar, who also has Callandor, and Sarene and Corele link with Damer. Nesune, Beldeine, and Daigian link with Eben, and Verin, Kumira, and Shalon link. Alivia and the three circles move off into the trees and form an encircling defense of the hilltop. Merise allows Elza to lead their circle at her request. Elza is committed to making sure the Dragon Reborn reaches the last battle.



Point of view: Barmellin Setting: Kai'rienne.


Barmellin is on his way to The Nine Rings inn in Tremonsien to sell his plum brandy. As he passes the excavation, he sees the giant statue there shining like the sun. He turns his mare, Nisa, and heads back to his farm in terror, deciding to drink his brandy instead, all of it.



Point of view: Timna Setting: Tremalking.


Timna is disturbed because the governors have left to pursue their Coramoor. Suddenly, she sees the giant statue glowing like the sun. She smiles, thinking that she might see the fulfillment of prophecy and the end of the Illusion.



Point of view: Cyndane.


Cyndane feels the flow of saidar and knows that Lews Therin found someone to use the female access key. This greatly angers her; if he had not spurned her, she would have faced the Great Lord, or even the Creator, with him. She can feel Moridin stroking her cour'souvra. Spinning a web for death, she opens a gateway and steps into a rolling forest.





Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin Setting: Shadar Logoth.


Lightning strikes the shield that Cadsuane holds over the hilltop. Without the shrike angreal in her hair, she wouldn't be able to hold it. The golden swallow in her hand points out the direction of the source of the attack. Cadsuane points and Elza, Merise and Jahar send fountains of fire towards the aggressor. She is surprised that Elza is the one to meld the flows. The swallow points to Shadar Logoth.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand struggles to keep control and wonders how long he will have to hold on.



Point of view: Demandred.


Demandred arrives in Shadar Logoth intent on stopping Rand. He figured out what Rand's intensions were when he located the access key here. He notes a shadow starting to cover the city and gouts of fire and explosions streak toward him. He quickly Travels out of the city, then runs for his life as more fire moves toward his second gateway. He guesses that, during the Breaking, the female Eyes Sedai must have developed a ter'angreal to track siedeen. He sees two women and an old man nearby and wonders who they are. They attack him and he realizes that the old man is an Asha'man. He runs again, so he can later return and attack and kill al'Thor.



Point of view: Cyndane.


As Cyndane runs from her third gateway, she prays to the Great Lord that she will reach Lews Therin first so she can see him die.



Point of view: Osan'gar.


Osan'gar pants from the exertion of running. He does not like masquerading as Corlan Dashiva and never considered himself to be a soldier. Instead, his talents led to the creation of Trollocs, Myrddraal, and other creatures. He does not want to be here, but Moridin will find him and kill him if he flees, and if al'Thor succeeds, the Great Lord might kill both of them. He begins working his way closer to the source of all the power.



Point of view: Verin Mathwin.


Verin sees a woman in the forest in a color changing gown. She thinks she must be one of the Forsaken. Verin tries to shield her, but the woman is too strong and she attacks the circle.



Point of view: Eben Hopwil.


Eben, Daigian, Nesune, and Beldeine encounter a woman wandering in the woods. Eben says that she is holding siedeen and attacks her physically since Daigian is controlling the circle.



Point of view: Cyndane.


Cyndane sees a woman standing in the woods, and prepares in case she is a wilder. Then she seizes saidar, Cyndane sends a ball of fire at her, but the web just comes apart when it reaches her. Cyndane thinks it must be some ter'angreal that she never heard of. The woman is stronger than Cyndane was before the Aelfinn and Eelfinn held her. She must have an angreal, too, but Cyndane fights back, determined to see Lews Therin die.



Point of view: Moghedien.


Moghedien is on a high hilltop not too close to the action, and she can feel Moridin stroking her cour'souvra. She can see an immense flattened dome of black where Shadar Logoth should be. She does not care who lives or dies, as long as it is not her that dies, although she would like to see Graendal or Cyndane die. She retreats to the back of the hilltop to watch the action.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is sure that both he and Lews Therin are screaming, but he only hears a roar. He could still feel the taint moving towards Shadar Logoth so he holds on.



Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin.


Cadsuane asks Min how Rand is doing. Tomas and Moad have Min and Harine hidden in a depression. Min cannot tell for sure, but thinks that he is in agony. Cadsuane goes over to Rand who isn't moving. Nine'eev looks very weak, so Cadsuane Heals her.



Point of view: Osan'gar.


Osan'gar reaches the top of a hill and sees Narishma holding Callandor. He also sees Rand. If he can kill al'Thor and take Callandor, then he surely will be named Nae’bliss. He begins to weave balefire.



Point of view: Elza Penfell.


Elza regrets fighting the Chosen, but she is sure the Great Lord will understand. She sees Corlan Dashiva on a nearby hilltop. Drawing on Callandor, she vaporizes the top fifty feet of the hill, and Corlan Dashiva with it, not realizing he is one of the Chosen.



Point of view: Moghedien.


Moghedien feels no more violent channeling except for the access key. She realizes the battle must be over. The black dome is now two miles high, and it suddenly collapses in on itself and vanishes. The wind howls, filling the void and lifting her into the air. She thinks that if she survives this, she will never be afraid again.



Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin.


Cadsuane examines the female access key, now melted and broken. The male access key is in her saddlebags with Callandor. There is a huge spherical hole in the forest where Shadar Logoth used to be. LAN returns and goes to Nine'eev. Min is with Rand. Both Rand and Nine'eev are unconscious. Cadsuane tells LAN that they need to recover on their own. The wounds in Rand's side are unchanged. Eben and Kumira are dead and Sarene is in shock. Damer Heals the wounded, including Beldeine and Alivia. Both he and Jahar say that siedeen is clean. Cadsuane wonders if the taint is completely gone. Now that she has Rand, she does not intend to lose him.



Point of view: Narrator Setting: Tremalking.


On Tremalking, word spreads that the Time of Illusions is at an end.





