Chapter 0. Glimmers of the Pattern 






Point of view: Rodel Ituralde


Rodel Ituralde, who is called The Wolf by his men, has survived many battles despite conflicting orders in Arad Doman. These orders have blundered friendly armies into each other and Dragonsworn alike. With the new orders of his king and various intelligence reports, he unites the Dragonsworn and his forces to fight the Seanchan even though it will take months for everything to come together.



Point of view: Eamon Valda


Eamon Valda muses over his flight from the Fortress of the Light in Amadicia and King Ailron's disastrous defeat against the Seanchan. Valda meets with Rhadam Asunawa. Asunawa suggests they move to Murandy to find an Andoran army rumored to be there, and Valda argues against it. They leave their meeting to meet the Council of the Anointed.



Point of view: Gabrelle


Gabrelle is out riding with Toveine Gazal and Logain. She is still trying to get used to being on the wrong end of a Warder bond and one that requires obedience. Still, as a Brown she studies the situation to further her knowledge. Atal Mishraile rides up to Logain to let him know that Taim has given permission for Logain to leave to do some recruiting for the Black Tower. Toveine tells Gabrelle to make sure they go with Logain on his recruiting trip.



Point of view: Yukiri


Yukiri is worried about the news and rumors reaching the White Tower. Meidani is passing information to her as they try to figure out which sisters might be Black Ajah. Meidani is one of the Rebels that have been forced to swear to obey the other sisters hunting the Black Ajah. Tensions are high between sisters of different Ajahs. She spots Atuan Larisett who has been identified as Black Ajah by Talene Minly. Galina Casban and Temaile Kinderode were also identified as Black Ajah, but they are not in the White Tower right now. Yukiri asks Meidani to renew her long ago friendship with Elaida since there is a chance she is also Black Ajah. Seaine Herimon approaches with information that all of the Ajah heads appear to have picked new Sitters that weren't typical choices when some of the Sitters left the tower to join the Rebel Aes Sedai.



Point of view: Gawyn Trakand


Rajar climbs up to the loft where Gawyn has just woken from his night's sleep. Gawyn regrets not returning to Caemlyn before winter arrived since he believes Elaida has been trying to get the Younglings killed, including him. An army has laid siege to Tar Valon which must belong to the Rebel Aes Sedai. A sister has arrived as a messenger from the White Tower and is meeting with the Aes Sedai in the village of Dorlan. Narenwin Barda the messenger is speaking to Katerine Alruddin and Tarna Feir. Gawyn asks if there is word of Elayne and Tarna answers that she is with the Rebels, which angers Gawyn since she could have let him know sooner. He finally promises to obey Elaida's orders.



Point of view: Davram Bashere


Davram Bashere observes the army preparing to siege Caemlyn from the high ground beyond the army and the city with disgust. The army's encampments and deployment are sloppy by his standards and a poor imitation of his own Saldaean encampment. He and Bael discuss this before Bael and the Aiel with him withdraw from the high ground. Bashere remarks on their situation with Tumad Ahzkan. Bashere reminds Ahzkan their queen,  Tenobia si Bashere Kazadi, is coming toward them with several Borderland forces at her back. Upon arriving in the camp, Bashere makes his way to his wife who has just survived an assassination attempt.  The would-be killers are found dead just outside the camp. Bashere sets up a meeting with a man that arrived the day before.



Point of view: Samitsu


Samitsu watches the rebuilding of the Palace and is thankful everything is peaceful under Dobraine Taborwin's leadership. Sashalle Anderly, recently healed from being stilled and having sworn an oath to Rand, is discussing a political situation in Cairhien. Samitsu is opposed to allowing Ailil Riatin to take control of House Riatin but Sashalle favors it and plans to give Ailil permission anyway. Corgaide Marendevin enters with word that an Ogier has arrived so they head to see what is going on in the kitchens.

Loial is trying to find out what is going on with Rand but is getting diverse rumors from the kitchen staff. When he notices the Aes Sedai he tries to get Karldin Manfor to leave with him right away. Karldin doesn't want to leave, instead he wishes to find out what has gone on with Rand and the other Asha'man that were in the palace. Samitsu reassures them that Rand is alright but is not nearby, and three other Asha'man were bonded by Aes Sedai voluntarily. To her surprise, Karldin does not seem shaken to learn that Fedwin Morr was poisoned. A servant enters claiming that Dobraine has been killed. They all go to Dobraine's room where he appears to be dead but Samitsu finds a small spark of life still and is able to heal him. Loial appears to know what the men who attacked Dobraine were looking for and Sashalle insists he tell her.  Before he can tell her Rosara Medrano enters with information that a party of Aes Sedai and Asha'man have entered the city with Logain at their head. 





Chapter 1. Time to Be Gone 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

Mat is out on a rainy day a few miles from Ebou Dar. A few days before, Mat helped the Atha'an Miere damane escape resulting in a large battle. Many died during their escape so bodies were still being found in the nearby waters. Noal is fishing and has caught something 'less than a foot long' for a Shara themed fish stew with peppers. Egeanin comes up to him saying that she had ordered that no one was to go away from the wagons. Mat is still having trouble with his injured hip and finds it difficult walking unaided. He links arms with Egeanin saying they go back and don't forget that we're supposed to be lovers. As they go back to Luca's animal show Egeanin adjusts her black wig that covers her shaved head. She has to disguise her being a member of the lower blood.

Mat reflects back six days to their tense escape from Ebou Dar. They were waiting at the city gate while sul'dam looked for marath'damane and wondering if Tuon or Selucia would shout they were being kidnapped while the dice started up inside his head. However the distractions that they arranged with Beslan and a captured Windfinder worked and they were allowed to leave the city. As a battle starts up in the city, the dice in Mat's head stop, but he doesn't know why. 

Mat is puzzled since there doesn't seem to be any kind of search going on for Tuon. He decides though that enough time has gone by that he should be leaving Ebou Dar.





Chapter 2. Two Captains 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

Mat returns to Valan Luca's traveling show, which is probably the largest in the whole world. Mat is warned that there are Seanchan talking to Luca. Egeanin, posing as his lover, is trying to take charge again and Mat resents it since it was his plan that got them out of the city. As Mat and Egeanin approach Luca's wagon, the Seanchan officer mounts his horse, preparing to leave the show. Egeanin admits to knowing the officer but he didn't look around as he left. The Seanchan are desperate for horses but Luca has an exemption for giving shelter to a Seanchan woman but he is worried the exemption may run out and unhappy about having so few patrons lately. Mat gives permission for the show to leave and Luca starts ordering the performers to pack up to go. Mat lets Juilin know the show is moving so the rest of his group can be told. As he prepares himself for his next task, the dice start rolling around in his head again.





Chapter 3. A Fan of Colors 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

The dice Mat hears sometimes just started up again and Egeanin wants to settle the issue of who's in command. Mat doesn't believe there is anything to settle and tells her he is off to see Tuon. Egeanin is affronted that Mat uses Tuon's name but Mat just grins. Luca's show is preparing to leave Ebou Dar so everyone else is busy getting ready. Still, Mat is apprehensive about seeing Tuon for the first time since he kidnapped her and called her his wife. He finally goes inside the wagon shared by Tuon, her maid, Selucia, and the former innkeeper, Setalle Anan. Tuon calls Mat 'Toy' which he dislikes, but can't get her to stop. Tuon though is very unhappy to be labeled a servant and even more a faithless thieving servant. Mat promises to get Tuon back home as soon as he can, but not until everyone is safe and she will just have to put up with being viewed as a servant. Mat asks her age, and she figures she will be twenty in a month, but is offended again that Mat might have thought her a child.

Tuon asks Mat if he remembers Hawkwing's face, which freezes him while memories of Culain fighting and losing to Hawkwing come to the surface. Tuon then promises to not try to escape or betray him in any way. Mat spits on his hand to seal the bargain and she asks about the writing on his spear, 'Thus is our treaty written; thus is agreement made.' Just as their hands touch sealing their agreement, the dice stop in his head. Thom enters the wagon to let Mat know that Tuon's disappearance isn't public knowledge. He also tells Mat that Tylin is dead, killed in her bedroom by the gholam, although the Seanchan have publicly laid blame on the Aes Sedai. Tuon tells Mat that he shouldn't believe in myths and reprimands him with a rap on his head. 

Blaeric enters to tell Mat that Joline wants to see him, with no delay. Mat enters the wagon Joline shares with Edesina Azzedin, Teslyn Baradon and the three sul'dam Bethamin, Seta and Renna. Mat exclaims Tylin was murdered but Joline ignores this and insists the show should head toward Illian instead of Lugard. Teslyn immediately objects and argues with Joline. Renna interrupts by suggesting they should be collared in order to teach them to behave. Mat ends the argument and after being pressed by him, the Aes Sedai all say there is channeling to the far north, a vast amount of channeling and they should go as far from it as possible. Mat sees a rainbow of colors that almost coalesces into an image of a man and woman sitting near each other, which he is sure is Rand.





Chapter 4. The Tale of a Doll 






Point of view: Furyk Karede

Furyk Karede of the Deathwatch Guard is in his room considering his promotion to banner-general after some success against the Asha'man. He is trying to figure out what may have happened to High Lady Tuon nine nights ago, when she vanished. A Seeker for Truth, Almurat Mor, enters his room and speaks to him of a troubling rumor concerning Tuon and extortion from merchants in Ebou Dar. Mor shows that he is familiar with Karede's background, including receiving a doll from Tuon after saving her life from assassins. Mor believes Thom Merrilin is a spy for the Aes Sedai and may have had a hand in Tuon's disappearance. Mor also mentions Egeanin as having taken two damane that use to be Aes Sedai out of the city that same night and Thom may have been part of her party. The sul'dam used to take the damane out have connections to High Lady Suroth.

After Mor leaves, Karede begins preparation to start his own search under the assumption that Tuon was taken out of the city. He leaves Ebou Dar heading north and meets up with a hundred Deathwatch Guards, twenty Ogier Gardeners and Musenge, the head of Tuon's guard detail. They also have six damane with sul'dam to handle them. They begin a search knowing their quarry has a large lead and they don't know the which direction to go.





Chapter 5. The Forging of a Hammer 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin Aybara is searching for Faile with the help of Neald and Grady. The Asha'man make gateways to jump the distance between them and the Shaido who took Faile. Perrin is focusing his anger that his wife Faile was taken by the enemy Aiel by pushing forward trying to figure out how to get her back along with his vassal Queen Alliandre of Ghealdan and Maighdin who, unknown to Perrin or Faile, also happens to be the former Queen of Andor, Morgase, but is now Faile's maid. He tries to find wolves nearby, but strangely there are none. He finds a pack far away but all he is able to learn is that they believe the Last Hunt is approaching, the wolf name for the Last Battle.

It has been twenty-two days since Faile was kidnapped. Many days were wasted going the wrong direction, then others picking up the trail, but now he is gaining ground if slowly. As he rises, Aram informs him that Sebban Balwer and Selande wish to see him. Selande tells him that Masema is sending riders off toward Amadicia but doesn't know why. Also, Masuri and sometimes Annoura are visiting Masema even though they believe he should be killed. After Selande leaves Balwer lets Perrin know that Masema is probably in contact with the Whitecloaks that survived the fall of Amadicia, or possibly the Seanchan. To find out what is going on Perrin suggests having some of Faile's retainers make friends with Berelain and others spend time with the Aiel.





Chapter 6. The Scent of a Dream 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin rides out of the camp hoping to meet the scouts returning with word of where the Shaido are camped. He smells burnt sulphur with a reek of wrongness which he recognizes as Darkhounds. This is also the same scent he had in his dream before he woke that morning. He sends Aram back to warn the camp including the Aes Sedai, the Wise Ones and the asha'man. Then he continues tracking to find out that a large pack bypassed the camp hounding somebody else than Perrin. A large group comes out to meet him including Berelain, the Wise Ones and the Aes Sedai. He is resentful of Berelain since she won't try to quell the rumors that they slept together the night after Faile was taken. Berelain rides out to meet him with a basket of food along with a document Santes stole from Masema. The document is from Suroth and gives the bearer the right to call on any aid desired from the Seanchan. Perrin then tells Berelain that Annoura and Masuri are meeting with Masema in secret. While Berelain was unaware of this and seemed confused, she said Aes Sedai always have their own reasons, but she will do what she can to find out what is happening. 





Chapter 7. Crossroads of Twilight/Chapter 7 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin points out the tracks on the bare rock that indicate a Darkhound pack that passed by their camp early in the morning. Masuri begins to examine the tracks using the One Power. Gallenne advices Berelain to break away from Perrin to avoid the danger but Berelain claims to be intent on being part of Faile's rescue. Masuri reports that even though she has studied Darkhounds and come across tracks of many packs before, this pack is new and may contain fifty hounds rather than the usual ten to twelve.

Masema approaches with a large group of his men but approaches Perrin with only two. Masema reports that a nearby town, So Habor, has full warehouses of grain and other goods that could be purchased. Perrin replies that restocking can wait on Faile's rescue. As Masema leaves a horseman and an Aiel on snowshoes approaches.





Chapter 8. Whirlpools of Color 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Elyas and Elienda have returned from scouting the Shaido. They are camped forty miles away around a town they captured. There may be as many as ten thousand Aiel warriors and fifty Wise Ones who can channel, a force far larger than Perrin could hope to engage. Arganda asks Marline if the Shaido will accept a ransom for the captives. Marline responds that ransom goes against Aiel custom, but the Shaido are already deviating from ji'e'toh by stealing everything instead of taking the fifth and taking wetlanders as gai'shain. Therefore Marline cannot say whether the Shaido will accept a ransom, but admits that they may "set a price." As they all continue to discuss ransom, Perrin says no. Perrin wishes to see the Shaido camp so he arranges for Grady to make a gateway nearby. Elyas gives Grady directions and once the gateway is open a small party goes through.

As they near the top of the ridge Sulin and Tuandha appear. When they reach the top of the ridge Perrin uses a looking glass to view the city and camp below. Marline comments that there are too many Wise Ones below, probably all of the Shaido Wise Ones which would mean four to five hundred. He spots windmills on the far ridges and something like a bridge running down to the town, an aqueduct. Suddenly colors burst into Perrin's mind and he sees an image of Rand and Nynaeve. Grady and the Wise Ones are concerned because they can sense vast amounts of the One Power being channeled. He asks Sulin to get him some prisoners to be questioned.





Chapter 9. Traps 






Point of view: Faile Bashere

Faile reports to Someryn on what she heard Sevanna say while she was on duty. She worries that Sevanna may find out all of her gai'shain servants are spying on her and worries more about not reporting everything to the Wise Ones. Faile peeks at Someryn after her report and finds her transfixed on something to the north and west. She then notices that all of the Wise Ones nearby that can channel are standing and staring the same way. Faile plans to escape before Perrin can catch up since he is greatly outnumbered by the Shaido, but hasn't found a way to do that yet. Chiad tells Faile that she helped Lacile and Arrela escape three nights ago and they haven't been captured yet.

The Aiel camps sprawls around the city of Malden where Faile has to go to do Sevanna's laundry. A drunken Aiel named Nadric accosts her and carries her off but Rolan intervenes. The laundry was dumped in the street and is now dirty from mud and ash, but it still must be cleaned to Sevanna's satisfaction. Rolan expresses interest in getting to know her better and Faile does not wish to offend her protector but also does not want things to go to far. Alliandre Maritha Kigarin is also washing clothes and chats with Faile. Maighdin has gone to try to steal the oath rod Therava has since Galina has promised to help them escape if they do. Galina arrives to check on their progress and Maighdin arrives shortly after, having been caught trying to steal the rod. Aravine arrives to let Faile know Sevanna wishes to see her right away. On the way back Aravine shows her Lacile and Arrela tied hand and foot in a wagon so Faile knows the escape attempt failed. Aravine then pledges herself to Faile, under the Light and asks to be part of any escape.

In the tent Therava is arguing with Sevanna that the clan should move east to get away from the channeling the Wise Ones could feel. Sevanna is adamant though that they should wait until the snow is gone. Sevanna then turns her attention to Faile. Galina betrayed Faile by bringing Sevanna the knife she had hidden. As punishment she is stripped and placed on a table for the night. Rolan comes by and massages her cramped muscles and lights a brazier under the wagon to keep her from freezing to death.





Chapter 10. A Blazing Beacon 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne has been Traveling to various noble houses and villages, recruiting for Caemlyn's defense during the siege. As she leaves her room the maid screams, reporting she saw a ghost of a long dead noble lady. Elayne is troubled by mood swings along with a lot of coddling due to her pregnancy and Aviendha doesn't help. Today she has just eleven young boys and old men since all the fit men left for Caemlyn already. As Aviendha prepares to make a gateway to Caemlyn, Elayne feels someone channeling vast amounts of saidar, somewhere to the west where Rand went that morning. Elayne wishes to go to Rand since he must be in danger, but Aviendha argues that it could mean disaster to show up unannounced. Aviendha also senses a warning based on her use of the ter'angreal rings in Rhuidean which provides glimpses of possible futures and choices. They proceed to Caemlyn and leave Rand to do whatever he is doing.





Chapter 11. Talk of Debts 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne arrives by gateway from a recruiting trip in Andor. None of the Kin, Aes Sedai or Sea Folk Windfinders are channeling. They all must sense the vast channeling to the west where Elayne can sense Rand. Birgitte arrives with news that something is going on with the Kin and Windfinders, but she doesn't know what it is. Vandene, Merilille, Sareitha and Careane arrive although Vandene continues on whatever errand she has in mind. Elayne tells them there is nothing to be done about the channeling so just ignore it. The Aes Sedai recommend making plans to flee, but Elayne quells them. Doilan Mellar arrives boastful of how he saved eighty of Lord Luan's men from being caught by the besiegers. Elayne dresses him down since those men are not sworn to her yet and he risked letting the besiegers get inside the gates to perform his rescue. She orders him to make sure the men are watched and kept away from the walls.





Chapter 12. A Bargain 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne and Aviendha enter her rooms so they can take a bath assisted by her maids. Birgitte updates Elayne on the wagon trains that arrived from Tear and Illian via Gateway, allowing the city to be resupplied even with a siege in place outside the walls. There is no word on Gawyn or Galad, much as Elayne wished there were. Gawyn would be able to command the mercenaries she hired much better than Birgitte. There are ten Aes Sedai at an inn in the city, but they appear to be neutral between Elaida and Egwene. A disturbance in the outer room interrupts her bath so Elayne goes out to find Zaida insisting on a meeting. Zaida has learned that Nesta din Reas Two Moons has been killed by the Seanchan so the clan Wavemistresses must meet to choose another Mistress of the Ships. Zaida wishes to leave with all of the Windfinders so Elayne must find a way to bargain to keep some of them in Caemlyn.

Zaida wishes Aes Sedai teachers that were part of an earlier bargain but Merilille Ceandevin is the only one Elayne will spare. Zaida also wishes a square mile of land to be ceded to the Sea Folk and under their governance. Finally they agree that Elayne can keep nine Windfinders in Caemlyn until her crown is secure while Zaida is promised the land she requested. Elayne is finally able to get dressed. 





Chapter 13. High Seats 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne begins to get dressed. Just as she finishes Birgitte announces that Dyelin has returned with the High Seats of four houses, which will bring her total to six houses, matching that of Arymilla. Elayne is surprised that the four high seats, Perival, Catalyn, Branlet and Conail are all teenagers but without guardians or others elders with them. Over three thousand useful troops came with the high seats, which will help greatly with manning the walls of the city.





Chapter 14. What Wise Ones Know 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Norry and Reene arrive to brief Elayne on what has happened while she was away recruiting. Aviendha protects the meeting against eavesdropping. Reene reports that the second librarian is a spy for the Brown Ajah. Another spy, the barber has been convinced to provide false information to Arymilla Marne. Norry reports that there are a lot of arsons, seemingly planned to cripple the city's supplies but so far no significant damage has taken place. The High Seats besieging the city have taken out large loans from the bankers. Dyelin fears they may try to bribe the mercenaries to gain entrance into the city. Birgitte will make plans to quickly reinforce any gate that seems to be vulnerable.

After Norry and Reene leave Aviendha mentions that someone tried to hear through the ward against eavesdropping, but there is no way to tell who it might have been. The Borderlanders are moving per Elayne's plan to have their threat help some of the Noble Houses decide to support her for the crown. Kin women are trying to track the six uncommitted noble houses that Elayne needs to secure the throne.

Monaelle and Sumeko enter to check on Elayne's condition. Monaelle channels a weave known to Wise Ones and tells Elayne she has twins that are healthy. Elayne will also start having trouble channeling. Aviendha is about to try the weave when the vast channeling to the west finally stops, still with no clue about what was happening. Caseille enters to report one of the apprentice Windfinders is missing, and has probably left the city with Merilille. Elayne starts a search for them but doesn't expect to succeed.





Chapter 15. Gathering Darkness 






Point of view: Elenia Sarand

Elenia is riding through Arymilla's siege camp, irritated with the way she is being treated and working on ways to escape her situation. She has pledged her support to Arymilla but hopes to get past that and become queen of Andor herself. She encounters Naean Arawn and they mostly bicker and threaten one another; in the end Elenia promises not to leave without Naean as long as she receives a pledge of support in writing. Nasin approaches believing he is betrothed to Elenia but he is simply crazy. Arymilla approaches before Nasin can create a scene to Elenia's relief. Arymilla engages in various petty degradations of her followers, especially the High Seats sworn to her. Elenia accepts that the only way to succeed with her plans is for Arymilla to die along with Nasin.

Point of view: Daved Hanlon

Daved is heading to a meeting with Shiaine. He is puzzled by the status of the Kin and Windfinders versus the Aes Sedai, back at the palace. He is being followed by someone and sets up an ambush to kill him, He succeeds, making it appear to be a robbery. At Shiaine's house, Falion greets him and tell him that Shiaine has a visitor so he may have to wait. Shiaine has been meeting with other Darkfriends from noble houses who are contesting for the Lion Throne. When Shiaine calls for them they find her visitor dead on the floor. She asks him to free the sul'dam being held in the palace and some of the damane also if possible. Shiaine also complains that the food warehouses are guarded too well for her arsonists. She then asks if Daved would like to see Caemlyn looted.





Chapter 16. The Subject of Negotiations 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene is with Gareth Bryne watching supply ships coming down the river to Tar Valon. The Rebel Aes Sedai haven't been able to stop the city from being resupplied by ship although they do hold all of the land approaches. Gareth requests that Egwene begin an assault using Gateways to put his men into the city but she does not want open conflict between the two Aes Sedai groups. The chain blocking the harbor drops, allowing the ships to enter the harbor but preventing an attacking force from entry. Delana talks with Egwene as they ride back to camp, giving her advice and probing to find out her plans and who her real allies are among the Aes Sedai.

Yesterday, Egwene sent a small group of Aes Sedai to investigate the vast channeling that took place a few days before.

Delana mentions some Sitters are interested in opening negotiations with Elaida on how to reunite the tower. Egwene gives Beonin permission to open negotiations despite advice to the contrary by Delana and most of her advisors. As the Aes Sedai begin arguing against her decision, Egwene sets the terms she will accept: Elaida is to resign as Amyrlin Seat and go into exile. This statement causes Beonin to faint but Egwene knows that Elaida will never accept her terms. She hopes that she has enough time for her plan to succeed in reuniting the tower.





Chapter 17. Secrets 






Point of view: Delana Mosalaine

Delana leaves Egwene and her advisors before they reach camp, satisfied she has caused a bit of chaos by the information she passed to Egwene.

Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Carlinya suggests Delana may have been after strife between the Ajah heads and the Sitters or between the different Ajahs. Egwene cautions Beonin to make sure no secrets escape to the tower during negotiations, especially any confirmation on Traveling or the ferret Aes Sedai that were sent to the White Tower. Egwene is willing for the negotiations to be a pretense while she looks for other plans to remove Elaida as Amyrlin Seat.

A worker spills a grain sack infested with weevils. Infestations in the grain and barrels of salted meat rotting has become common lately even though all of the food should have been protected by a Keeping. She observes the many novices in the camp, now organized in groups called families, which has reduced the number of runaways since they have a group to associate with. Before returning to her study and the pile of papers on it, she stops at the tent where anyone who can channel Earth is creating Cuendillar objects. These are extremely valuable and are now used to provide the funds the Rebels need to keep their army intact. Nicola is there but has to leave for a class and Areina follows her out. Nicola has been Foretelling many events but little sense has been made of what she has seen. She also has been caught eavesdropping and trying to learn things that are above a Novice level. Kairen Stang, Bodewhin Cauthon, and Leane Sharif are the best at making Cuendillar after Egwene. Egwene has a plan for those that are the fastest, but only Leane has had enough practice so the plan will have to wait a bit yet.





Chapter 18. A Chat with Siuan 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene enters the tent that serves as her study to find Siuan and Halima waiting for her. Halima encourages Egwene to talk over any worries she has with her since she claims she doesn't have an agenda unlike almost anyone else. As Halima is dismissed, Egwene starts to get a headache which usually requires Halima's massages to soothe. Siuan distrusts Halima and tries to persuade Egwene not to rely on her so much. Siuan saw a list of the new Sitters for Elaida's hall and they are also younger than would normally be given a position as Sitter. Siuan believes something is going on with those decisions but hasn't been able to decipher what it is.

Egwene reviews the reports from Leane, that there is crime and unrest in Tar Valon since the Tower Guard is no longer patrolling as they should. There are many rumors about Arad Doman, but no way to tell which if any are true. Siuan mentions the Bargain that was made with the Sea Folk and Egwene's plans for the Kin, reminding her that those issues won't be able to be kept secret from the Hall forever. Since the Kin, having never been bound by the Oath Rod, live much longer than Aes Sedai, Egwene plans to allow Aes Sedai to retire into the Kin and remove their oaths. The Bargain to teach the Windfinders will probably not be taken very well, but it already agreed to.

The sisters sent to investigate the vast channeling that occurred a few days ago have returned and are ready to report what they found.





Chapter 19. Surprises 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene goes to the Hall of the Sitters since a meeting has been called to discuss whatever findings there are about the vast channeling from a few days ago. Lelaine also wants a discussion on the negotiations with Elaida that Egwene authorized that morning. Nisain a'Cowel reports to the Hall that they could not identify the weave that was made and it might have been made by a man. Both saidin and saidar were used though and there is now a three mile wide hole where Shadar Logoth used to be.

Romanda asks if the report changes anything in their plans since they assume it must have been the Forsaken behind the channeling. The discussion goes to using Circles but even with thirteen strong sisters in a Circle, they would not be able to counter such a large amount of channeling. Moria identifies a possible solution, since using men would allow the Circles to grow much larger, which upsets nearly everyone present. Amid much shouting and screaming and possibly preparations to start a brawl, Egwene uses a weave to speak loudly, announcing that a proposal has been laid before the Hall. Egwene is unsure whether she should favor or oppose the proposal moving forward, but has little say anyway since it is the Hall that must decide.

The Sitters speak, either for or against before finally voting. Initially not enough Sitters stand to pass the proposal but finally Romanda stands and then encourages Lelaine to stand which she does even though they usually automatically oppose each other. The proposal passes but it will take time to make the necessary plans.





Chapter 20. In the Night 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere


The Rebel Aes Sedai spends the all day discussing who will be sent in the Embassy to make an alliance with the Black Tower. Egwene heads to her tent and briefly speaks with her maid Chesa. They notice the absence of Halima and Chesa expresses uneasiness about the woman. After Chesa leaves, Egwene travels to Tel'aran'rhiod to meet with Elayne Trakand. However, Aviendha appears in her stead and tells her about Elayne's pregnancy with twins. Aviendha refrains from mentioning that Rand and probably Nynaeve were responsible for the channeling everyone felt rather than the Forsaken as the Aes Sedai in Salidar fear.

After her meeting, she watches her dreams to look for a True Dream. Her first true dream is of Matrim Cauthon. Mat plays a game of bowls, and fells all nine pins. The pins rerise, but they now they are men, and Mat lazily bowls them over again and again. Egwene knows each men bowled over represents a thousand dead men and that an Illuminator is involved. She remembers having a similarly meaning dream.

The second true dream is of her climbing a very narrow cliff path. The ledge drops away, and she catches herself narrowly, and dangles. A woman with a sword on her back climbs down the cliff, and offers to help her to the top. She has a strong Seanchan accent. She is upset at the thought that a Seanchan would ever save her. The cliff turns into a tall spire at which she is at the top. There is a white lamp, and two ravens strike the lamp causing it to wobble and send white flames splashing off. She knows this to mean the Seanchan will attack the White Tower and shake it to its core, and is taken with the irony of the Seanchan's actions.

She is awakened when Halima returns to the tent very late at night. Rather than talk to her, she decides to get some real sleep instead. Chesa wakes them in the morning, but she and Halima are asked to leave when Nisao Dachen comes with pressing news. She creates a weave of secrecy and informs her that Anaiya and her warder Setagana are dead, and having tested for resonance, speculates they were suffocated using Saidin. Egwene sets Nisao on the task of finding the reason for Anaiya's death and commands her to secrecy.





Chapter 21. A Mark 






Point of view: Alviarin Freidhen


After being out of the White Tower for nearly a month, Alviarin tries to secretly return by way of a storeroom three levels below the White Tower Library. She had Traveled back from Tremalking, and has to channel off the red mud soiling her clothes; Mesaana has made it clear that none should know about her ability to Travel. She dwells angrily on her subjugation to Mesaana and her concerns about her control over Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan. She enters through the 9th depository assuming that the arithmetic books there make it one of the least visited depository. However, when she exits into the main corridor, the librarians Zemaille and Aiden encounter her.

A strange remark made from Zemaille sends her to the Amyrlin Seat's study to ask Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan for more information. When she arrives, Elaida is not alone. Rather, more than half the sitters in the hall are present and in a meeting. Elaida sends her to the corner and threatens private penance on her before continuing with the meeting.

She learns that the sitters have gathered together to call a sitting and vote on whether negotiations should be made with the Rebels in Salidar. Andaya Forae reveals that the rebels have learned the ability to Travel and are skilled enough to carry their large army with it. The Ajahs all speak in favor of such a negotiation, however Talene Minly, Yukiri, Doesine Alwain, and Rubinde seem to have reservations, though do not speak it.

After hearing such, Elaida says her edicts still stands to give penance to the rebels who return, and the sitters leave, some begrudgingly. Upon their departure, Alviarin quickly tries to regain her authority, but is cut off by Elaida. Elaida says her threats are now useless for Toveine Gazal, who led an attack against the Black Tower will take the blame in her stead. She finishes by slapping Alviarin in the face. She threatens to execute her once she has enough evidence of Alviarin's treason, but instead tells her that she has removed her as Keeper of the Chronicles and requires her to receive penance with the Mistress of Novices Silviana Brehon, ten times for every one that Elaida endured from Alviarin.

Alviarin assumes that Elaida must know, though without proof, that she is a Darkfriend. She runs to her apartment on the 6th floor, and retrieves her most prized possession, a Brilliant red rod. She calls for Mesaana, and tells her about her suspicions. However, Mesaana dismisses the threat. She is about to punish Alviarin for suggesting it, but is stopped when the source dissipates and a Myrddraal suddenly appears who calls himself "Hand of the Shadow". She flippantly declares that she's going to kill her instead, and the Myrddraal questions her decision. Mesaana challenges him, and he binds and gags her, and prepares to punish her for not coming when he called. Before this however, he asks Alviarin if she wants to know why one of the Chosen must be punished. Alviarin dismiss this, addressing the Myrddraal as the Great Lord. With a burning touch to her forehead, he marks Alviarin as his and promises her protection from Mesaana. He then assigns her the task of delivering to him those who are threats to the Black Ajah.

She runs from her rooms, and dwells on the events. Her thoughts indicate that she will have trouble coming up with solid evidence that anyone is actually threatening the Black Ajah, though she knows whatever hunt she manufactures must include a perceived threat from Elaida. Remembering the strange way Talene looked at Yukiri and Doesine, she decides to start the search with her.





Chapter 22. One Answer 






Point of view: Pevara Tazanovni

Pevara is meeting with Tarna Feir in her rooms with Pedra serving tea. Tarna is now the Keeper of the Chronicles, replacing Alviarin Freidhen after her month long absence. Tarna recounts how she encountered a recruiting party of Asha'man when she was returning from Salidar to the White Tower. After pondering the situation for a long time she has concluded that Aes Sedai must take the Asha'man as Warders so they can be controlled, whether they could be gentled afterwards or not. Pevara shows Tarna a message she received from Cairhien, originally sent by Toveine Gazal. She suggests it changes the whole world.





Chapter 23. Ornaments 






Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin

Cadsuane is in the manor house of Lord Algarin Pendaloan looking out the window at the workers going about their chores. Verin just helped the Sea Folk including Harine din Togara Two Winds travel to Tear so they can select a new Mistress of the Ships, which Min's viewing said would be Harine. Min asks Cadsuane to see Rand but she puts the meeting off until later. Cadsuane knows what most of the ornaments of her Paralis-net do, but there are three she doesn't. On her way to Rand, Cadsuane observes the Warders practicing sword forms, even the Asha'man. One of her ornaments can detect when a man that can channel is near and it vibrates more if there are more than one male channelers. Cadsuane also spots Nynaeve who has her own Paralis-net. Merise comments that Jahar has grown stronger in the Power recently which nearly shocks Cadsuane.

As Cadsuane arrives at Rand's room, Algarin Pendaloan is leaving. She enters and Rand mentions that Algarin had a brother that could channel so he wants to be tested. Rand talked with Alivia and found out the Seanchan always regroup after losing a battle, make adjustments and then try again. They never give up which is why they are called the Ever Victorious Army. Erian comes in then to tell Rand her two Warders are approaching, that they traveled with someone. Sarene says the same is true for her Warder.





Chapter 24. A Strengthening Storm 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand is distracted by Min who is snuggled against him on the bed, wondering if he can keep her safe and keep Elayne and Aviendha safe also. Lews Therin is making comments inside his head making Rand wonder just how mad he is now. Logain Ablar and Davram Bashere have arrived with some Saldaean horse and other Asha'man. Logain used Warders of some of the Sisters with Rand to track his location. There is a storm outside with lightning and heavy rain. Rand thinks of Mat and sees a man on a wagon. Loial was also part of the group that arrived and Min rushes to greet him. Rand seizes saidin and marvels that it now clean from the channeling he did at Shadar Logoth though he still feels the sickness and doesn't know why. Loial is pleased that there are Ogier rooms in the manor house so he will be able to sleep in a bed large enough for him. Loial and Karldin Manfor have visited all the steddings, except Shangtai, to warn the Ogier that Shadowspawn have been using the Ways and they should guard the Waygates. Thankfully, most agreed to do so. Loial still worries about his mother, Covril, catching up with him, along with his bride-to-be, Erith. Loial then tells Rand that the Aes Sedai that came with Logain and the Asha'man have been bonded by the men.

Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin

Cadsuane is upset on learning that the Asha'man have bonded Aes Sedai. Cadsuane orders Samitsu Tamagowa to return to Cairhien to keep an eye on Sashalle Anderly and the other Sisters in the city.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand is angry with Logain over the bonding of Aes Sedai since he doesn't want a war with the White Tower. He demands that no more bonding occur, but Logain explains Taim gave the order, so they assumed it came from him. Logain adds that Taim does many things that people presume are at Rand's command, then advises Rand to give attention to the Black Tower, saying Taim has more power with the Asha'man than Rand does since most of them have never even seen him. Logain also informs Rand that all of the Asha'man Rand kept with him are on the list of deserters, including Damer Flinn, Jahar Narishma, and Karldin Manfor.

Bashere tells Rand of the men who ransacked his tent, similar to the men who nearly killed Dobraine. He believes the men were looking for the three seals on the Dark One's prison in Rand's possession. Rand decides to send Logain, Bashere, and Loial to the Seanchan to arrange a truce since he can't simultaneously fight them and prepare for the Last Battle.

Point of view: Elza Penfell

Elza receives a report on what is happening in Cairhien from her Warder Fearil. Greens usually have more than one Warder but she never has since finding a Darkfriend is a challenge. Elza orders him to protect the Dragon Reborn since Rand has to reach Tarmon Gai'don in order to be defeated by the Great Lord.





Chapter 25. When to Wear Jewels 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin is pacing, thinking about the puzzle that is Malden, the Shaido encampment around it, the four hundred Wise Ones that can channel and how to rescue Faile from all of that. It has been thirty-two days now since Faile was taken captive by the Shaido. Supplies are running low, so a trip is being made to So Habor, taking all the carts and using a Gateway made by the Asha'man to get close to the city. Perrin brings an armed escort along with Berelain, the Aes Sedai and their Warders. Balwer also wishes to go to ferret out whatever information he can. As they near So Habor, the countryside is deserted but a Seanchan winged beast is flying around in the distance.





Chapter 26. In So Habor 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin arrives near So Habor with many carts and plans to resupply his camp since the town did not sell their harvest. A small group heads toward town including Berelain, the Aes Sedai and Balwer. The town guards are more fearful that the party are ghosts than they are afraid of the armed might they represent. They enter the inn where the town merchants pass their time. Annoura immediately demands to know what is happening in the town since everyone appears run down and dirty. Before she gets an answer, Berelain asks for the grain merchants. After negotiations on everything Perrin's camp will need he demands to see the grain warehouse, supported by Berelain. When Perrin slices open a sack, grain pours out along with weevils. Every sack he opens is the same, grain and weevils. One of the men outside screams bringing Perrin outside, then claiming he saw a man that walked right through the warehouse wall.

Seonid also saw the ghost and tells Perrin that everyone in town is seeing ghosts, that the dead are walking in So Habor. Since she can't lie, Perrin accepts it as the truth. Seonid wishes to stay, but Perrin needs everyone he has to free Faile.





Chapter 27. What Must Be Done 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Despite the dirty town and dirty people in it, Perrin Aybara must purchase grain to resupply his camp. As the beans, oats, and barley are winnowed of the weevils close to the river, the Aes Sedai suggest that some among them might stay to look into the ghost problem in So Harbor but Perrin refuses to allow it.

Back at the camp, Shaido are staked to the ground and tortured with hot coals by Masema Dagar's man Hari. Perrin kicks the coals off the Shaido and interrogates him regarding Faile's location. Perrin is upset with what he feels he has to do in order to get his wife back. He uses his axe to chop off the hand of one of the Shaido, then tells them they each get four chances to answer his questions. If they don't, when they have no hands and no feet he will leave them in a town to beg. He walks off into the forest where he finds Elyas Machera, who reminds him about the promise he made to stop using the axe when he comes to enjoy using it. Perrin leaves the axe where he threw it, stuck in the trunk of an oak.

The carts return with the supplies after three days along with Balwer and Tallanvor who left Perrin some time ago. Tallanvor reports he knows where there are fifteen thousand Seanchan with a dozen damane that are hunting the Shaido also. Balwer suggests they could become allies.





Chapter 28. A Cluster of Rosebuds 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

Mat is on the road with Valan Luca's Traveling Show and the group he brought out of Ebou Dar. The show moves slowly though since it rains some every day and sometimes all day. They also stop to perform at every town since Luca is not willing to forego making some coin despite the amount of gold Mat has promised him. The Aes Sedai have been taking excursions despite the risk of them being caught by the Seanchan and the sul'dam have been following them. Mat decides to find out what they are up to. The Aes Sedai have been asking questions in towns, checking for pursuit. His request for caution has no effect on them. Thom and Juilin also go in to the towns to gather information so Mat feels he is well informed of what is going on.

Mat has been trying to court Tuon since the show left Ebou Dar. He tries to use Egeanin to break the ice but it doesn't work. Noal recalls something from the Prophecies of the Dragon: Fortune rides like the sun on high / with the fox that makes the ravens fly. / Luck his soul, the lightning his eye, / He snatches the moons from out of the sky. Mat gives Tuon an expensive necklace, but she just passes it on to Selucia as if it was of little worth. Selucia then to tosses the necklace to Egeanin and orders her to wear it. Egeanin is then named Leilwin Shipless by Selucia and ordered to not let her self be seen again.

He plans out a strategy beginning with nightly visits to play stones. He then starts giving Selucia small gifts each night. They are evenly matched in stones which seems to please Tuon. Finally he brings a beautiful cluster of rosebuds and sets them down near Tuon and she compliments him on how well he plays. Tuon requests to take walks after dark since she has kept her word to not try to escape. She tells Mat he can accompany her on the walks. During a talk with Egeanin he finds out that naming Tuon his wife three times is half of the Seanchan ceremony. If she says the same to him within a year and a day they will be married. As the show crosses a river between two towns, the dice start up in Mat's head again and he is sure they will come up Dark One's eyes this time. Tuon makes a request and after thinking about it he agrees. She smiles at him and the dice stop.



Notes[]


Tuon asks to go shopping at the next town.




Chapter 29. Something Flickers 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon


In the wagon where the three sleep, Bayle Domon is stubbornly telling Matrim Cauthon that his idea to take Tuon shopping is plain and simple madness, while Egeanin Tamarath sides with Mat, saying that Tuon Athaem Kore Paendrag gave her word. Eventually conceding, Bayle watches Mat and Egeanin exit the wagon into the daily morning life of Valan Luca's Traveling Show.

As they walk, Egeanin accuses Mat of actually believing that he will marry Tuon. Mat jokes about it, but privately reveals his dismay at having to marry not only a noblewoman, but the heir to the Crystal Throne.

Leaving Egeanin behind, and with dice rattling in his head, Mat meets up with Tuon and, to his consternation, Selucia, so'jhin and personal bodyguard to Tuon. They leave the traveling show to go shopping. When they near the town of Jurador, on the road leading up to the town, Mat tries to avoid townsfolk who are almost walking into him as if he is not there. Tuon makes a wry comment, and Mat looks around and realizes that the road is actually completely deserted except for Tuon, Selucia, and himself. Unnerved at seeing ghosts, he continues walking into the town.

As Tuon and Selucia browse many shops looking for high quality silk, Mat notices many other people also from the show, such as Aludra, Thom, and Edesina Sedai. Mat is angry at Edesina because she accidentally reveals her ageless face. Mat passively notes that two out of the three sul'dam from the show are tailing the Aes Sedai, meaning that the last sul'dam would be by herself, presumably watching the other two Aes Sedai, Joline and Teslyn.

Realizing that Tuon and Selucia have disappeared, Mat curses and enters a store at random. Luckily, Tuon and Selucia are there. Here, they buy several colors of silk, as well some linen and wool. With Mat carrying the bundle of cloth, they return to the show.

Juilin Sandar comes rushing up to them, exclaiming that Egeanin has been hurt. The dice start rattling louder than ever. Sprinting through the show, Mat finds Egeanin on the ground. Mat finds out she has been stabbed in the back by Renna Emain, one of the sul'dam, who has since fled the show. Teslyn arrives and heals Egeanin.

Egeanin reveals that she is the only one who knows that the a'dam works on the three sul'dam, meaning that they can learn to channel. Mat also notes that Tuon has trained damane, and can also learn to channel.

Renna was last seen fleeing by horseback towards Coramen, where there is a sizable Seanchan encampment. Mat pursues Renna with the Redarms. They come upon her right as she is about to enter in sight of the city, but too far away for them to catch up in time. Feeling depressed, Mat gives the order to shoot, so Gorderan shoots her with a crossbolt, then Harnan finishes her with an arrow from his longbow. She falls dead into the stream and floats away down river. The dice stop rolling and they return slowly to the show, no one speaking.

While he was gone, Tuon chatted with Latelle and Valan Luca. Tuon has given Luca a warrant that places him under her personal protection. Tuon notes that the warrant explicitly excludes Mat from her protection. Upon hearing this, Mat begins to laugh, for he also notices that Tuon is wearing the silk rosebuds that he gave her in the previous chapter.





Chapter 30. What the Oath Rod Can Do 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere


It is shortly after sunrise. Winter still clings to the land, but its hold is diminishing. The sounds of a busy morning penetrate Egwene's tent. Egwene is at a weevil-tainted breakfast that Chesa, her maid has prepared, and who is present in case Egwene needs anything. Nisao enters, holding saidar while her Warder, Sarin, stands outside. Egwene dismisses Chesa.

Nisao informs Egwene that Kairen Stang is dead and that there is no doubt that she was killed by saidin and fills in the gory details of the murder observing at last that it was at least quick. She also reports that Kairen's warder is 'primed for murder' and has been sedated. Egwene observes that both Anaiya and Kairen were Blue Ajah and asks if there were any other connections between them. Nisao reports that she didn't really know of any. Egwene orders her to find out discreetly. She notes that the murders are affecting Nisao and asks if many sisters are walking around holding saidar. Nisao responds in the positive, a little defiantly.

Nisao departs and takes Egwene's appetite with her. Egwene decides that this must be a day when she does not let anything ruffle her routine. She leaves her tent and notices a bustling camp with lots of Novices and Accepted going here and there in their various duties, and is disturbed by the number of Aes Sedai who have wrapped themselves in the power. It reminds her of a season of Illness in Emond's Field, and she recognizes fear in her Aes Sedai.

She enters the warm tent that serves as her study and is shocked to find her first visitor is Theodrin who requests to know if she would see Romanda. Egwene replies with a carefully neutral "Any time she chooses, child." As Theodrin leaves, an Accepted named Emara enters and is harshly rebuked for her lack of courtesy to Theodrin Aes Sedai by Egwene. Emara pales and makes a deep curtsey to Theodrin. A shaken Emara then requests permission for Lelaine to attend Egwene and Egwene replies in kind toward her as she did Romanda.

Only then do we find out that Theodrin deposited a paper on Egwene's desk before departing. She reports that Romanda has dispatched two sisters to Cairhien to track down something. Theodrin does not know what but promises to find out. Egwene despairs that Theodrin signed her name to a spy report. Just then she is surprised by Siuan who has entered the tent and now asks what Egwene is reading. Egwene gives the paper to Siuan, simultaneously asking her if she knows about Kairen, and then, has she made the necessary changes? She observes that she is on edge and that Siuan is not when the woman says "no need until we know about the boats, Mother." Siuan grouses about Theodrin's stupidity.

Egwene confesses worry about her status and the status of Theodrin and Faolain, all three of whom have not sworn on the Oath Rod. Siuan comforts her by comparing her to Deane Aryman and Edarna Noregovna, two of the most successful Amyrlin Seats in the White Tower's history. Egwene dryly observes that Siuan may be right but she still needs to be careful that she does not end up like Shein Chunla, who started out as a strong Amyrlin but ended up a puppet. Siuan ends the conversation by swearing what she is going to do to Faolain and Theodrin because of their missteps.

Sheriam enters and interrupts the tirade and Siuan rebuffs her. She delivers a report on runaways from Tiana. They discuss the report and Egwene finds that Nicola is the only name listed, with Areina going with her, but that they had already been gone 3 or 4 days by now. Then Egwene asks Sheriam of the Aes Sedai reaction to her Dream that the Seanchan will attack the Tower. Sheriam side-steps the question. Egwene responds with a forceful reply and redirects the conversation back to her question about the Dream. Sheriam reports that because the Seanchan are a thousand leagues away the worry is minimal, which tells Egwene that she is not accepted as a Dreamer.

Sheriam is followed by Myrelle and Morvrin, both of whom release the Source once they enter the tent and who leave wary warders outside to keep guard. They discuss Egwene's lack of status as a Dreamer until Maigan enters the tent. Maigan contemptuously requests Egwene to send Siuan on an errand, and Morvrin followed her out. Maigan and Myrelle start a kind of competition for status. Siuan returns followed by Ragan, a Shienar soldier with a message from Gareth Bryne about raiders crossing the river and advisement for Aes Sedai to stay close to the camp. Siuan suddenly requests to be excused, which Egwene allows. Egwene also tells the messenger that "Aes Sedai will go where they wish, when they wish..."

Egwene muses about boats and schemes with Leane and Bodewhin Cauthon.

Romanda arrives, acting with appropriate courtesy toward Egwene, but no more. She reports that the talks with the Tower are going badly. They discuss the talks. Then Romanda brings up the Kin, challenging the numbers that Egwene has claimed exists. She and Egwene have a frank conversation concerning the subject, with Egwene landing several well-aimed blows and Romanda landing none. Finally, Egwene points out that the only real difference between Aes Sedai and Kin is that the Kin left the Tower before they could swear on the Oath Rod. Then she reveals her plan to allow Aes Sedai to retire into Kin communities, thus binding the Kin to the Tower.

Romanda reacts badly to the plan and exits. The other two Sisters react almost as poorly.

Lelaine arrives, reporting that Kairen's death will cause problems between them and the Black Tower. They also discuss warders who have lost their Aes Sedai, embarrassing Myrelle into leaving because she has so many warders who once belonged to other Aes Sedai, who are now dead. They continue their conversation about the Black Tower and bonding Ash'aman. At one point in the conversation, Lelaine comes so close to suggesting Compulsion be used that Egwene rebukes her sternly.

Chesa brings lunch, which Egwene hardly touches while musing over the loss of Nicola and other talented Novices.

After an indefinite, but obviously lengthy time, Egwene determines that Leane and Bode have departed and so orders Bela saddled, telling Siuan that she means to take a ride and orders Siuan to tell no one. Egwene departs the tent after removing her stole of office and goes to meet Bela, delivered by a terror-stricken Siuan (who hates to ride horses). While in the camp Egwene rides badly, like Siuan does to disguise who she is. After getting out of the camp, she gets Bela into a gallop and they head toward the river Erinin. She meets a party with Bode accompanying them. She informs Bode that she is staying ashore. Bode protests, but Egwene simply states that she cannot ask a Novice to do what the Amyrlin can do better. Bode does not like the answer but she accepts it.

A boat is eased into the river with her aboard. It makes its way to the massive chain blocking North Harbor. She embraces saidar and changes the whole of the chain to cuendillar. At roughly the same time she feels someone else close by embracing the Source, after which something strikes the boat and her. She sinks into the cold water of the Erinin.

When she comes to, she finds that she has been captured by the White Tower. She suddenly realizes two things; they had been waiting for her and she had been betrayed. The chapter ends with the bitter question, "But by whom?"





Chapter 31. An Answer 



Point of view: Rand al'Thor


Rand watches a thunderstorm outside a window. He thinks about the pain from his wounds and heron brands, and Lews Therin whispers, "Sometimes, pain is all that lets you know you're alive." Davram Bashere enters and tells Rand the Seanchan want him to meet with the Daughter of the Nine Moons.



Notes[]


Since Tuon is with Mat she could not be part of setting up the meeting.




