Chapter 0. Embers Falling on Dry Grass 






Point of view: Galad Damodred


Galad, Trom, Dain Bornhald, and Jaret Byar are riding along a road in Amadicia, north of a mountain range that held the ancient mines of Aelgar. They are heading to a manor house once belonging to Ailron, which now serves as the headquarters for the Whitecloaks, who are now allied with the Seanchan. Galad plans to kill Eamon Valda because Bornhald and Byar told him that Valda assaulted and killed Morgase. Trom and Galad have both been promoted to Lord Captain because three of the high officers were killed by the Seanchan at Jeramel.

At the manor there are about fifty regular Whitecloaks and a half dozen Questioners led by Rhadam Asunawa. Valda chastises Trom; he and the other Lords Captain are supposed to be headed to Nassad for a meeting with the Seanchan. Trom says that one of the Children has defiled and murdered the family of one of their numbers, and wishes to call the Trial Beneath the Light. Asunawa objects and asks Trom to name the criminal so the Questioners can interrogate him. Valda approves, however, and Galad challenges him. Asunawa wants to arrest Galad, but Valda overrides him and accepts. Bornhald takes Galad's cloak and sword belt while another under-lieutenant, Kashgar, takes Valda's. Bornhald warns Galad that Valda strikes to the left most often, but Galad has trained under Henre Haslin and Gareth Bryne, and is aware of that.

After a fierce battle, Galad kills Valda. Most of the Whitecloaks applaud, but Asunawa and the Questioners are gone. They have headed out toward Nassad, just over the border. Galad's supporters believe Asunawa has gone to talk the other Lords Captain into arresting him. Galad wants to seek other allies to oppose the Seanchan and the others agree. Galad tells them that he also intends to fight at Tarmon Gai'don, but to do it, they might have to ally with Aes Sedai and Asha'man. The men reluctantly agree. Whitecloak law says it is allowable to ally with the serpent to fight the raven. By virtue of defeating Valda under Trial Beneath the Light, Galad receives Valda's rank. He is now Lord Captain Commander.



Point of view: Rodel Ituralde


It is near dawn as Rodel Ituralde leads a hundred Domani and three hundred Taraboners. His horse is Steady. Tornay Lanasiet leads two hundred Taraboners. They are near the village of Serana in Tarabon, halfway between Elmora and Amadicia, and there is a Seanchan camp nearby. He thinks of his wife Tamsin Ituralde. They ride into view of the camp surprising the Seanchan and Taraboners there. The defenders mount a charge and seem to trample a few people in the field. Lanasiet's men charge forward, but Ituralde has his archers take out the Seanchan command along with a sul'dam and damane. After three volleys the survivors flee, pursued by Lanasiet and his men. Jaalam rides up. There are no bodies on the field where the people were standing. Ituralde orders him to burn the warehouse. He has twenty thousand men all over Tarabon on similar raids. He means to work his way back north and re-gather his men. He expects the Seanchan to follow in a fury. They will fall into the trap he has set in Almoth Plain. If they see the trap he has a backup plan.



Point of view: High Lady Suroth Sabelle Meldarath


It is nearly dawn in Ebou Dar after a sleepless night. Suroth wonders if Tuon is alive or dead; she has been missing for seventeen days. She thinks she is dead because the escape of the Atha'an Miere damane and the death of Tylin occurred on the same night Tuon disappeared. Two of her own sul'dam, Renna and Seta, disappeared at the same time, and Egeanin Tamarath stole a pair of damane and also disappeared. Someone is trying to disrupt the Return. If Tuon is, indeed, dead, Suroth will have to apologize to the Empress. She decides that she will kill herself before reaching Seandar if it comes to that. Tuon's der'sul'dam left nine days ago with all her sul'dam and damane. Captain Musenge left at the same time with many of his men. They have been gone too long for a simple training exercise, so Suroth thinks they are searching for Tuon. She worries that someone may suspect she is Atha'an Shadar, a Darkfriend.

The door opens and a da'covale enters, whom Suroth identifies as Liandrin. Almandaragal, her lopar, prepares to defend her and Suroth berates her. Liandrin says that she would not harm Suroth and cites how she killed Alwhin as proof that she can be useful. She brings a message from an officer of Captain-General Lunal Galgan to summon Suroth. Suroth thinks it is time to have a sul'dam collar Liandrin, although she enjoys owning the former Aes Sedai who had disrespected her previously. There are already whispers of a marath'damane among her servants and it will be a shock when they discover that Liandrin is shielded so that she cannot channel. Suroth will send Elbar to find another sul'dam Darkfriend, but they are surprisingly few. She sends Liandrin to Rosala for a beating then goes to her anteroom where Banner-General Mikhel Najirah awaits.

Najirah escorts her through the palace to Captain-General Galgan's office. He tells her that raken began arriving three hours ago with reports from Lieutenant-General Turan of dozens of raids in Tarabon. Several of the raiders wear armor painted with stripes, the armor of the loyal Taraboners. Rodel Ituralde was supposedly behind them. Suroth orders them to bring her Ituralde's head; she orders Captain of the Air Abaldar Yulan to put most of his raken on the hunt. Yulan wants to save some for Banner-General Tylee Khirgan and to search for the Aiel and seven thousand deserter Whitecloaks in Amadicia, but Galgan does not object as long as he has the to'raken he needs for Altara and Illian.

Suroth returns to her rooms where Semirhage appears masked in fire. Semirhage offers to make her Empress. Suroth is terrified at such a prospect, but Semirhage tells her that Empress Radhanan and all the imperial family are dead. Seandar is in chaos and there is war from the Aldael Mountains to Salaking. She laughs and says, "Let the Lord of Chaos rule." Suroth is horrified that even one of the Da'concion, the Chosen Ones, could do that. Semirhage orders her to put all her efforts to killing Tuon and to expanding the rumor that she is an impostor. Suroth agrees. She will send Elbar with thousands of men.



Point of view: Pevara Tazanovni


Pevara Tazanovni and Javindhra Doraille, both of the Red Ajah, are meeting with Tsutama Rath. Due to the fact the Galina Casban disappeared during the Battle of Dumai's Wells and is now presumed dead, the Red Ajah decided to select Tsutama as their new Highest. She recently was called back from exile by the Amyrlin Elaida and Pevara is greatly relieved over Tsutama election, because she was aware that Galina was a Darkfriend.

Tsutama is angry over the events that happened at Dumai's Wells, where she believes that three of her own Ajah perished. What is more, news of what happened on that fateful day is slowly spreading throughout the White Tower, no matter how hard they try to contain the information. Faced with Tsutama's anger, Pevara wishes that the third Sitter of the Red, Duhara Basaheen, was here. However, she had left the Tower approximately one week ago.

Finally, Tsutama reveals the real reason why she met with the two other Sitters. Sashalle Anderly sent a message to Galina, believing the former Highest to be alive in the Tower, where she says she is in charge of most of the sisters in the city of Cairhien. Sashalle also notes that many Aes Sedai are getting along with the Asha'man, ignorant of the bond between them. These Asha'man and sisters used the Warders of Aes Sedai believed to be with Rand al'Thor to try and track him down with gateways and the bond following the cleansing of saidin. Next, she reveals that Logain Ablar has been healed from gentling, a feat that the White Tower still believes to be impossible at the moment.

Lastly, and most importantly, Sashelle reveals that she and many other sisters have sworn an oath to obey the Dragon Reborn until after Tarmon Gai'don, after she and two other sisters, Irgain Fatamed and Ronaille Vevanios, were healed by Damer Flinn from stilling, though again the sisters refuse to accept this.

Tsutama discusses the situation for awhile with the other sisters, before telling Pevara to go ahead with her idea to bond Asha'man. This is something that needs to be done to counter what they believe the Forsaken did twelve days ago. Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan is not to be informed, for this is Ajah's business, and as the Amyrlin Seat, Elaida is no longer of the Red. The two Sitters are dismissed.

Pevara muses about the tensions in the Tower that are ripping the relations between the Ajahs apart before meeting up with Yukiri. Both are disappointed about the fact that their hunt for the Black Ajah has reached a standstill, as four Darkfriends out of the eight they are aware of are outside of the Tower, and the other four are already brought to heel.

Yukiri reveals that Talene Minly, one of the Darkfriends, has been ordered to appear before the Supreme Council of the Black Ajah. Talene is afraid that she is being summoned to be questioned, and so they decide to hide her away in the bowels of the Tower, after briefly discussing the possibility of breaking into the meeting and capturing the whole council.

Next, Yukiri says that she has heard from Akoure Vayet, who has also sworn an oath to Rand al'Thor. Seaine Herimon then walks up to the two and reveals that she too has heard the news, from Ayako Norsoni. Finally, Seaine tells the other two that Elaida has just ordered her to discover proof that Alviarin Freidhen has been engaging in treasonous correspondence with the Dragon Reborn meaning she did not start a hunt for the Black Ajah even though that is what they found. All three of them are extremely afraid, for the events that are happening all increase the chances of them being found out by the Black Ajah.



Point of view: Alviarin Freidhen


Alviarin has just retrieved a secret message of the Black Ajah and she is returning to her rooms. She still thinks how she felt overwhelmed by her experience with Shaidar Haran, representing the Great Lord in her eyes and constantly fingers the spot on her forehead where he touched her.

In the White Ajah quarters she passes Seaine and Ferane on the way, two Sitters. Her whole Ajah is ashamed about Alviarin for being demoted from Keeper. She passes also Astrelle and Tesan who are discussing the statistical methods of Radun and Covanen. She passes Ramesa and Norine who even spurn her. Alviarin is also still sore from the penances with Silviana, ordered by Elaida. But one day she will take revenge to all of them. Alviarin thinks that Katerine is spreading the news of Dumai's Wells through the Black Ajah, undermining the Tower confidence to the base.

In her rooms Alviarin finally decodes the message and two others. One reports that Talene left the White Tower yesterday, before attending the Supreme Council meeting. Alviarin is now certain there was something between her and Yukiri and Doesine. Alviarin is afraid to call Mesaana again, who probably wants to kill her, for what happened last time. So she writes orders to find Talene and to keep close watch on Yukiri and Doesine.



Point of view: Galina Casban


Wearing gai'shain white, Galina rides her horse Swift outside the Shaido camp. Therava still owns her; she cannot channel without permission. Sevanna almost never lets her, and Therava doesn't let her at all. Her goal is to get the binder so she can remove her oath of obedience, although Therava has forbidden her to pick it up. She is intercepted by Gaul and Fager Neald, who kidnap her. She threatens that Therava and Sevanna will punish them, but they bind and gag her.

They bring her through a gateway to Perrin's camp. Outside Perrin's tent, she overhears the end of a conversation about arranging a meeting. Perrin, Berelain, a soldier, and a man in a black coat are in the tent. Galina recognizes Berelain, then remembering Dumai's Wells, she realizes that Neald and the other black coated man are Asha'man. She nearly panics, but Gaul and Neald hold her firmly in place.

Despite her gai'shain robes, she claims she is on Aes Sedai business with Sevanna and that Faile and Alliandre are under her protection in Malden. She gives her name as Alyse. Berelain offers to let her speak with Masuri Sokawa, Seonid Traighan, and Annoura Larisen, but Galina declines. Perrin has her verify the accuracy of maps of Malden and the surrounding Shaido camp. She asks him to hold off his attack for a week so she can conclude her affairs. He does not commit, then asks her about the Wise Ones drinking only water, which she confirms. He asks her to warn Faile to go to Lady Cairen's fortress at the north end of the city and hide when she hears wolves during the day. Lying, Galina says she will. Before she is escorted out, she asks Berelain to slap her; the bruises will help her prove that she was kidnapped when she returns to the camp. After retrieving her horse Neald takes her back to the Shaido camp. She is late and Therava punishes her. She plans to get the binder, kill Faile and her friends, and escape.



Point of view: Egwene al'Vere


Egwene is in a coach after having been captured and dosed with forkroot on her way to the White Tower. Katerine Alruddin slaps her, aware that she is waking up. She will be taken to the cells in the White Tower and expects to be charged with falsely claiming to be Amyrlin and executed. Egwene asks who betrayed her so Katerine plans to slap her again but Felaana Bevaine stops her and they begin to argue and all of the Aes Sedai prepare to channel. Tensions in the coach are high between the two red Sisters and the other three Aes Sedai. Egwene is then asked what she did to the harbor chain. She is a bit impertinent when she tells them is it now cuendillar so there is nothing they can do without tearing down the gatehouses so Katerine slaps her very hard again. She plans to meet Siuan in tel'aran'rhiod to let her know what happened so the Rebel Aes Sedai can make arrangements for new leadership.

They arrive at the tower and Nicola Treehill is dressed as a Novice and delivers a message that Egwene is to be handed over to the Mistress of Novices, Silviana Brehon. As the sniping continues between the Aes Sedai, Egwene's spirits go up. Melare meets up with Katerine and Barasine, informing them that they caught a wilder at South Harbor. It was strange though since they couldn't detect any channeling and were lucky to have caught sight of the boat. Egwene comments on how clever Leane was but they don't believe it could be Leane Sharif even after Egwene explains that the change in her looks is due to stilling and that she was healed by Nynaeve. They arrive at the Mistress of Novices study and Egwene is turned over to Silviana. Silviana asks why she isn't hysterical but Egwene just replies that it would do no good. Silviana tells her she has been demoted to Novice by Elaida but Egwene states that she is Aes Sedai since she was raised to the Amyrlin Seat. Egwene will be shielded at night but receive an hourly dose of forkroot so that she will only be able to channel small amounts when she attends classes.

Before being taken to her room for the night Egwene tells the Sisters of her dream of the Seanchan attacking the White Tower. Silviana promises to consider her warning and also talk to the other woman to see if it really is Leane. She goes to sleep and enters tel'aran'rhiod with hopes that she can accomplish something with the tower in discord.





Chapter 1. When Last Sounds 






Point of view: Siuan Sanche





The Rebel Aes Sedai believe Egwene is dead since her boat was found overturned on the banks of the River Erinin. The stench of burning sulphur carried by an easterly wind wakes Siuan Sanche in the middle of night. Fear of Egwene’s capture has caused chaos amongst the Rebel Aes Sedai. However, Siuan possesses news that will ease their fears. She dresses and works hard to force thoughts of Gareth Bryne out of her mind before leaving his tent. Siuan rides mild and milk-water Nightlily to the Aes Sedai camp. She enters Myrelle’s tent to find her in a meeting with Sheriam, Morvrin, and Carlinya. Siuan announces that Egwene and Leane are both alive and prisoners inside the White Tower. She stops the group before they engage in an abrupt rescue attempt, recalling Egwene’s orders against any rescue attempts. The group of Egwene loyalists debate the rationale behind the Amyrlin Seat's orders until Lelaine Akashi intrudes upon the meeting and requests Siuan’s presence alone.  

Lelaine tells Siuan that she interrogated Faolain Orande to find out Siuan has been working with the other Sisters. She has had Faolain confined which is why she was not available when looked for the last few days. Siuan tells her of Egwene's request that the Sitters meet in the Hall of the Tower within Tel'aran'rhiod when Last sounds, tomorrow. Lelaine all but admits to scheming her way to the title of Amyrlin should Egwene fall, and expects the support of all the Egwene loyalists when the time comes.





Chapter 2. Knife of Dreams/Chapter 2 






Point of view: Beonin Marinye


Beonin Marinye wakes up early, being restless, and thinks about her past. Her breakfast is spoiled and she draws the conclusion that probably the Dark One is touching the world. She leaves the tent and finds her Warder, Tervail Dura, outside watching the men around the tent, since it was a man who could channel who killed the two sisters. She tells him to saddle the horses.

While waiting, she watches the Novices. On one hand she finds the change to admit novices older than eighteen difficult, but on the other hand she is sad thinking about how many Aes Sedai have been lost to the age barrier. She hopes for privacy, but, while watching the Sitters leave for negotiations with the White Tower, she is joined by Ashmanaille and Phaedrine. They ask for the Gray Ajah sister's advice about the murders. Beonin thinks that the murder can only be found by finding the connection between the two murdered sisters. Since both were Blue Ajah, she makes a connection between Moiraine Damodred and Rand al'Thor, leading her to the Asha'man. Ashmanaille is doubtful of that but thinks that an Asha'man might be able to find the killer. But any plans for an alliance with the Black Tower seem to be halted because the Sitters do not agree on details.

Beonin and Tervail ride to the Traveling ground. After a short wait they Travel to Tar Valon, close to the White Tower. Tervail wonders what his Aes Sedai's plans are. Beonin hesitates when she sees an Aes Sedai, Turanine Merdagon, who should be long dead, wandering in the gardens, another sign of the Dark One touching the world.

Beonin starts wearing an Illusion, clearly wanting to enter the White Tower disguised. Tervail thinks she wants to assassinate Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan and suggests that he should do it. But she sends him away to hire a room in the city while she goes to find Elaida.



Point of view: Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan


Elaida listens to complaints from Mattin Stepaneos den Balgar. He was kidnapped from Illian and brought to the White Tower for protection. The former King of Illian was kidnapped to demonstrate the Tower's power. Elaida plans to restore his throne, demonstrating even more power.

She calls Tarna Feir, her new Keeper of the Chronicles, to deal with Tower business. They talk about the harbors. Elaida wants to avoid fighting with the rebels at all costs. She is looking forward to Gareth Bryne commanding the Tower Guard. Even though she had ordered it, the streets of Tar Valon are not being cleaned. Tarna says that people are afraid to leave their houses, since they've seen the dead walk in the streets. Elaida orders that the Tower Guard be used to force residents to get started on cleaning the streets. Elaida is furious that she does not have a hold on Rand with Tarmon Gai'don so near. The sewer outlets of Tar Valon are nearly clogged and rats are in the Tower itself. The wards against them must be weakening.

The Accepted Anemara brings in Felaana Bevaine and Negaine. They introduce a woman who wants to present a petition to the Amyrlin Seat. It is Beonin, who lets her disguise drop as soon as she enters the room. She reports how she tried to spread dissension among the sisters in Salidar. Clearly she has been loyal to Elaida the whole time, wanting to bring the rebel sisters back to Tar Valon. Elaida learns that the rebels know that Egwene al'Vere is alive and not to be tried. Beonin tells her that Egwene can enter Tel'aran'rhiod. Apparently Egwene's discoveries were the main reason for Elaida to keep her alive. Beonin shows Elaida examples of Traveling and Skimming. Elaida wants Beonin to swear that she won't show the new weaves to anyone without her permission. Beonin also tells Elaida the names of the sisters sent back to the Tower to spread tales about Logain Ablar and the Red Ajah. The last name on the list makes Elaida sit bolt upright. She wants them watched. One of them is Meidani, who tried to resume an old friendship with Elaida. She wants her invited for dinner.





Chapter 3. At the Gardens 






Point of view: Aran'gar

The Forsaken gather in Tel'aran'rhiod after Moridin summons them. Aran'gar finds Demandred, Mesaana and Semirhage deep in a conversation, while Graendal is sitting apart from them, watching. Aran'gar notices that Mesaana looks ill and joins Graendal. The meeting is set in the Ansaline Gardens, probably a place known in the Age of Legends. It was chosen by Graendal, who was the first to appear. The Forsaken are served by undead creatures capable of reading one's mind, called zomara, created by Aginor. Aginor now goes by the name of Osan'gar, and has missed every meeting since Shadar Logoth. Aran'gar mentions that Moridin had once been called Ishamael. She suggests an alliance to Graendal by trying to seduce her. Even though she hardly remembers having been a man she is still very attracted to Graendal.

Demandred confronts Aran'gar with having lost the grip on Egwene al'Vere. Apparently the Forsaken side with the rebel Aes Sedai in order to keep the White Tower from being reunited. Aran'gar states that Egwene is not the figurehead they think she is. She had been listening in to the Sitting of the Rebel Aes Sedai Hall in tel'aran'rhiod. Apparently Egwene has the other sisters convinced that the Tower is about to fall apart. Mesaana said that she feared to arrange Egwene's flight so as not to encourage the rebels not to end the conflict. She is determined to keep the sisters at each others throats for as long as possible. Aran'gar starts toying with Graendal's hair, thinking that one's quarry needs to be accustomed to one's touch. She appears to want to manipulate Graendal the way she manipulated Egwene. Moridin enters and breaks up the argument between Aran'gar and Mesaana over who decides when or if Egwene is to be set free.

Moridin announces that Sammael seems to have resurfaced. He or someone disguised as him sent Trollocs and Myrddraal into the Ways and since they obeyed, it had to have been one of the Chosen. Moridin orders the Forsaken to report any movement of Trollocs outside of the Blight and no one is to act on their own until the Time of Return. Demandred notes that the seals to the Dark One's prison need to be found. Moridin agrees and orders everyone to look for them in places where Rand al'Thor has been. Cyndane suggests kidnapping Lews Therin Telamon but Moridin fears she might kill him accidentally. He makes it clear that he will be the one to decide when and how Rand dies. Aran'gar thinks that Cyndane sounds just like Lanfear, but Graendal had said that Cyndane was weaker in the Power than Lanfear.

In the end Moridin shows the Forsaken the appearances of Matrim Cauthon and Perrin Aybara and tells them to pass on their faces and to tell their followers to kill both of them. Semirhage comments that she might have been able to take care of them sooner if Moridin had passed on their images sooner. Aran'gar does not plan to follow Moridin's orders about leaving Rand unharmed.





Chapter 4. A Deal 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin Aybara and his party are waiting for the Seanchan to start negotiations about cooperating to fight the Shaido in Malden. Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron and Annoura Larisen are still estranged because Berelain now knows that Annoura visited Masema Dagar behind her back. Gerard Arganda wants the Seanchan to come, while Aram is doubtful that they will. The "Prophet" said they wouldn't. Perrin sees swirling colors when he thinks about Matrim Cauthon, seeing him talking to a small dark woman, but shoves them away, thinking to himself that Faile Bashere is all that matters.

Perrin smells and hears the other party arriving long before the others do. The signal announces a large party of men, perhaps unfriendly. Martyn Tallanvor accompanies the Seanchan. He had led the previous negotiations that had led to the current meeting. A damane is with the Seanchan party. Tallanvor introduces the two parties formally. The Seanchan are led by Tylee Khirgan and Bakayar Mishima. When she sees him, Tylee is glad that Perrin is not introduced as the Wolf King, because a line from the Seanchan version of the Prophecies of the Dragon says: "When the Wolf King carries the hammer, thus are the final days known. When the fox marries the raven, and the trumpets of battle are blown."

Tylee asks Berelain about her name, which hints at a connection to Artur Paendrag Tanreall. She would be honored by the Empress for being from the same descendants as long as she didn't claim the land the Seanchan are about to reclaim. Berelain answers proudly that she is indeed a descendant of Artur Paendrag and that she only claims Mayene, which she will defend to her last breath.

Both parties have many more men in the woods than was agreed on. Perrin convinces the Seanchan that he, for one, has no reason to ambush them. He further demonstrates the power of his army by having two Two Rivers longbows hit a branch in his hand, which is then burned by one of the Asha'man. The damane with the Seanchan party notices that saidin is being wielded without Perrin having to mention the presence of the Asha'man.

The Asha'man and Perrin's proposal to give up any claim on Manetheren convince Tylee to withdraw her forces. A strong wind blowing grit and smelling of sulphur comes up at this time but only lasted a few moments. The Seanchan blow a whistle to tell their soldiers to leave while Perrin simply shouts to Dannil Lewin and Tell Lewin to gather everyone and leave as soon as the Seanchan are out of the forest.

The negotiations begin with Tylee asking what Perrin can bring to the plan. He does not have trained soldiers but many channelers, male and female, for which he demands a promise that they will not be leashed. Additionally, it will have to be done with his own plan. He tells the Seanchan about the amount of channeling Wise Ones in the Shaido camp. The Seanchan are surprised, since none of the Shaido they encountered in Amadicia had channeling Wise Ones. Perrin tells them that he would need large amounts of forkroot to feed the Wise Ones through the aqueduct above Malden. That can only be obtained by asking a superior, which Tylee wants to avoid. Perrin hands her a piece of paper with a message from the High Lady Suroth Sabelle Meldarath herself. It reads that every help needs to be granted to anyone carrying that message, no questions asked. They seal the deal with a handshake.





Chapter 5. Something... Strange 






Point of view: Faile Bashere


Faile Bashere attends Sevanna in her tent, serving her wine. Faile and eleven other servants need to attend Sevanna while she sleeps. Faile thinks about past punishments and intends not to add another one. She wants to seem tamed, but is afraid that if she pretends too long, it will actually happen. She wants to escape before Perrin Aybara catches up to them, but at the same time she wonders why he hasn't caught up yet.

Sevanna complains about Galina Casban being punished too much, but she is not concerned about Galina's well being. Galina's state makes it impossible for her to order punishments when they would be appropriate. Apparently all of Galina's hair has been singed off with the One Power. Faile wonders how an Aes Sedai could let herself be treated like that. Galina is sitting between Sevanna and Therava, looking at the latter in panic. She is being treated so harshly that even some of the Shaido say it is too much. She looks broken. Faile worries about Galina not being able to fulfill her promise to take them with her when she leaves. She fears that Galina might betray her to get away from being punished again, even if Faile manages to steal the rod.

Sevanna complains about Galina not being impressive any more without her hair. She offers wine to Therava, who still prefers to drink water.

Faile worries about having too many people swear fealty to her. Lusara, a Domani merchant, treats their plans for escape like a children's game, jeopardizing everything.

Therava says that the Wise Ones want to move north and east, since Malden is attackable and food is not easy to come by any more. Sevanna wants to stay because of the good soil for planting, pastures and water. Therava answers that some think Sevanna wants to be captured by Rand al'Thor to entice him to marry her. Sevanna angrily affirms that she will indeed marry him and unite the clans. Therava doesn't approve of Rand, especially since he revealed the Aiel's secrets, which many of the Aiel believe to be lies. Clearly questioning Sevanna's authority, she points out that Sevanna wouldn't know, since she never went to Rhuidean. Sevanna threatens Therava back by questioning her loyalty and stressing the importance of reuniting the clans. She violently orders that the Shaido stay where they are.

Meanwhile the new gai'shain enter the tent to relieve the current ones. Faile is replaced by Doirmanes, a Cairhienin nobleman, who is so eager to please Sevanna that he would have to be killed, should he ever find out about the oaths of fealty that have been sworn to Faile. While she leaves the tent, she hears Therava tell Sevanna that Bendhuin, sept chief of the Green Salts, has received permission to go to Rhuidean. He will replace Sevanna once he returns. Sevanna is furious at not being informed, but since she is not a clan chief, only speaking for one as a widow, there was no need to tell her.

Faile walks toward her tent thinking about her situation. Planning has been difficult because Sevanna decides on her servants' tasks at a very short notice. In general, it is difficult to find enough chores for all the gai'shain. There are fourteen septs camped in Malden. The camp holds one hundred thousand Shaido and the same amount of gai'shain. Two more septs, the Morai and the White Cliffs, are arriving shortly.

Meira, another Wise One, strides towards Faile. She went looking for her because she thought Faile had been dragged into a tent by a drunk. Even though it is against custom, gai'shain are assaulted regularly. Faile and her friends are being protected by Rolan and some of the other Mera'din. Meira commands Faile to tell her everything that Sevanna said and did that morning. While Faile tells her, the two feel reality ripple. Three waves of ripples leave the two in shock, feeling barely existent. Neither knows what just happened.

In the tent she shares with Alliandre Maritha Kigarin, Maighdin and Dairaine Saighan, a Cairienin noblewoman, she finds Alliandre tending the wounds of yet another beating. She comforts Alliandre, who is also terrified of the ripples and of feeling hopeless. Aravine Carnel peeks into the tent, telling Faile that Alvon and his son Theril, two other gai'shain who swore fealty to Faile, have something for her. Theril had a chance to steal the Oath Rod from Therava''s tent. He hands it to Faile, who buries it in her sleeve. Faile promises that she will get them out if Galina isn't able to free all of them at once. Alvon doesn't think that Galina is going to free anyone, much less herself.

They are interrupted by Rolan's sudden appearance and Faile orders the others to leave. Rolan warns Faile that he won't be around to protect her much longer. The Mera'din are thinking about going back to the Three-fold Land. They do not want to follow Rand, as they believe he is a false car'a'can, but they are appalled by the Shaido as well. He knows of her escape plans and though he has no intention of betraying her, he plans to take her with him if he leaves and to let her go as soon as they reach the first town. Faile feels safer now she has the Oath Rod and a promise by Rolan. As she predicted, the gai'shain camp is turned upside down as soon as Therava discovers that her Oath Rod is missing. Luckily, Faile has safely hidden it in the town.





Chapter 6. A Stave and a Razor 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

Matrim Cauthon is not surprised when Valan Luca refuses to leave Jurador, a prosperous town in Altara, after only one day. There is money to be made here. The dice have started tumbling in Mat's head again and he is eager to get to Lugard but not even the promise of more gold can sway Luca.

Mat decides to go into Jurador since the show is not going anywhere. He's relieved to see no shadows of the dead on the road like he did yesterday. That must be a sign of Tarmon Gai'don approaching. This thought brings back the swirling colors and a view of Rand al'Thor and Min Farshaw that he could have done without.

Once inside the city walls Mat gets himself breakfast. Passing by a shop that sells swords, daggers and quarterstaffs, he spots a slim black yew stave that would make a fine Two Rivers longbow. Mat buys it without even bargaining.

Mat now moves on to what he came to the town for in the first place. He visits several stables looking for a suitable horse, even with the Seanchan around there must be a few on sale in the town. After visiting a whole series of stables Mat finds the horse he is looking for. He sees a black and white mare of a good breed from Arad Doman called a Razor. Mat has only heard of them, never seen one. The owner, a man named Toke Fearnim, knows he has a good horse there and names a very high price. After the customary bargaining Mat buys the horse, even if it is more money than he intended to spend.

After getting back to the show he sees Aludra, obviously having some sort of supply for her fireworks delivered. Mat still hasn't solved the bellfounder riddle.

After taking care of the horse and putting away the stave, Mat decides to call on Tuon Athaem Kore Paendrag. She is in the inevitable company of Selucia of course, and that of Noal Charin and Olver. Tuon still calls him "Toy" and Mat decides to give her a nickname as well -- "Precious". Tuon seems to think this is some sort of game but Mat doesn't seem to understand the rules.

Noal is telling Olver stories, and this time Jain Farstrider, one of Olver's great heroes comes up. Mat wants to know if Noal is related to Jain and Noal tells him that he is a cousin. Tuon, who is unfamiliar with the stories surrounding Jain Farstider, wants to know who this man is. In Seanchan very few people earn a second name apparently. Olver tells her he was a hero, though Noal thinks he was a fool. Noal does seem to know quite a few personal details of Jain. Before Noal can elaborate on the matter the door swings open and Juilin Sandar reports that a group of Seanchan soldiers are setting up camp nearby.





Chapter 7. A Cold Medallion 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

Matrim Cauthon sends Noal Charin to warn Egeanin Tamarath and sends Olver to warn Bethamin Zeami and Seta Zarbey and the three Aes Sedai about the Seanchan soldiers that are camping near the travelling show. Meanwhile, Mat goes to check out the Seanchan camp. Three Seanchan soldiers try to enter the show without paying, almost causing a fight with the show people until another Seanchan appears and inquires as to the problem. Mat verifies that her soldiers have tried to enter the show without paying and she sends them running back to the Seanchan camp. The Standardbearer offers a life of glory and adventure if they sign up with her, but no one takes the offer. The dice are still rattling away in Mat's head.

Mat decides to go check on the Aes Sedai. When he gets to their wagon, Blaeric Negina and Fen Mizar, Joline Maza's Warders, are not there. His foxhead medallion goes cold so he can tell the women are channeling in there. Banging open the door he finds Joline, Edesina Azzedin, Teslyn Baradon, Seta, Bethamin, and Setalle Anan inside. Bethamin and Seta are standing rigid as fence posts while Joline is slapping Bethamin's face over and over. Mat grabs Joline's arm and she slaps him. Mat, dropping down on the nearest bed, lands hard smacks on her bottom as fast and as hard as he can. Mat's medallion again goes cold as Edesina is trying to channel at him, and is shocked when nothing happens. Setalle Anan says that he must have a ter'angreal that disrupts flows of the Power and that Cadsuane Melaidhrin supposedly had one like it and that she would like to see it.

It also comes out that Setalle had mentioned testing for the shawl to the Aes Sedai. Joline asks how Setalle knows Cadsuane and about testing for the shawl. Setalle claims that when she owned The Wandering Woman, her guests may have talked more loudly than they realized. Joline begins to argue but stops when her two Warders attempt to get into the wagon and she has to shut the door in their faces. Joline next tries to reprimand Mat for the spanking but Mat cuts her off, pointing out that the three Aes Sedai would be wearing a'dam if not for him and that he will not put up with being hit by any of them. Mistress Anan and Teslyn agree with Mat.

Mat wants to know why they were channeling as if it were the Last Battle and Setalle Anan proceeds to tell him. Joline wanted to go see the Seanchan, Bethamin decided to discipline her, trying to pull Joline across her lap with Seta helping her, and Edesina wrapped them up in flows of Air. Mat says that it doesn't account for the amount of channeling he knows they were doing and he gets speculative looks from the Aes Sedai and Mistress Anan. Joline takes over the story, saying that Bethamin channeled a weave that she has never seen before and that she must have been drawing as much of the Power as she could use. Mat asks the Aes Sedai what they intend to do about it. Teslyn suggests that they let her die. Bethamin, crying, says she will never channel again but Joline replies saying that she will inevitably try again and suggests that they teach her enough to make her safe. Edesina and Mistress Anan take Joline's side while Bethamin and Seta, take Teslyn's side on the matter.

While the women were still arguing, Mat takes the opportunity to slip out of the wagon. When Blaeric and Fen ask what happened in the wagon, Mat tells them to ask Joline. Mat, feeling wary with everything going on, goes to sleep on the floor of the wagon he shares with Egeanin and Domon, sure that the next day will have to be better, even though the dice are still spinning in his head.





Chapter 8. Knife of Dreams/Chapter 8 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

With the altercation after the Seanchan's arrival, Valan Luca decides to leave Jurador before dawn the next morning. Matrim Cauthon wakes the Redarms to hitch the teams for his wagon and Tuon's and to saddle Pips. Gorderan drives the wagon with Tuon and Selucia sitting on either side of him. Mat rides Pips alongside the Aes Sedai wagon. The foxhead medallion goes cold against his chest since the Aes Sedai are teaching Bethamin since she started channeling on her own. Mat tries to avoid seeming too eager with Tuon by not riding beside her. At midday they reach Runnien Crossing. Luca shows the Mayor and Village Wisdom, Mother Darvale, around the show.

The first night, Mat approaches Aludra. He tells her that he has figured out what she wants with a bellfounder. Aludra needs the lofting tubes to pay back the Seanchan for destroying the Illuminators. She calls the tubes "dragons" and the charges "dragons' eggs" which she believes she can shoot for two miles. Mat tells her that he knows someone who can get them made. Mat sees the swirling colors that resolve into Rand al'Thor talking with Loial. Aludra wants to know who this man is with such power. Mat tells her that it's a secret only Thomdril Merrilin, Juilin Sandar, Egeanin Tamarath, Bayle Domon, Teslyn Baradon, Joline Maza, Chel Vanin and the Redarms know: that the man is the Dragon Reborn. Aludra agrees to go with Mat when he eventually leaves the circus. One set of dice stop rattling in Mat's head. Mat has dreams of death and destruction on a hundred battlefields and the Dark One laughing.

Egeanin and Domon go into the village, and upon returning announce that Mother Darvale has married them. Mat leaves the wagon to them and buys a tent from the sword-swallowers. Lopin and Nerim are constantly looking for ways to outdo each other while missing their previous employers, Nalesean Aldiaya and Talmanes Delovinde. Noal Charin tells stories while Olver plays Snakes and Foxes. Thom and Juilin report news that they have picked up. Amathera Aelfdene Casmir Lounault is still scared by Tuon, Selucia, Egeanin, Bethamin Zeami and Seta. 

Mat sets up his tent near Tuon's wagon, so he begins spending a lot more time with her. Tuon asks Mat about the Dragon Reborn and tells him that Seanchan Prophecies say that he must kneel before the Crystal Throne before Tarmon Gai'don. She also wonders if the Dragon Reborn is the one who sounded the Horn of Valere. Mat is shaken by this when Tuon mentions the person who blew the horn would be valuable if taken.

Several days later, Mat surprises Tuon with the gift of the Razor he purchased in Jurador. At the same time the second set of dice stop tumbling. Mat, Tuon and Selucia go for a ride. They pass a Tinker caravan and suddenly Tuon gallops off into the trees, with Mat and Selucia following. Tuon names the razor "Akein", meaning "swallow" in the Old Tongue. They are among some ruins and Mat recognizes the hills as The Dancers when it had been Londaren Cor, the capital city of Eharon. He also remembers dying there in battle when Nerevan and Esandara invaded Shiota. Mat wonders how the Eelfinn collected memories from dead men. He then deduces that anyone who goes through the Twisted redstone doorframe to visit their realm is then linked so all of his memories are then captured somehow. Selucia catches up and tells them that the Tinkers are following, thinking that Tuon was trying to escape from Mat. Mat speaks with the Seeker while Tuon and Selucia speak with the women. The Tinkers are headed to Ebou Dar after hearing that there is safety where the Seanchan rule. Mat gives them warning to take care but the Tinkers intend to continue taking their women who can channel straight to Tar Valon. Once the Tinkers are satisfied that the women are safe, Mat, Tuon and Selucia ride back to the circus.





Chapter 9. A Short Path 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

Matrim Cauthon can't figure out why women cause him so much trouble especially since he always tries to treat them well. While sitting with Egeanin Tamarath and Bayle Domon, Mat asks Egeanin to tell him what she knows of Tuon. What she can tell Mat is that the Seanchan Blood and Imperial family are taught intrigue and fighting from birth. Tuon had a brother and sister assassinated and the Empress has many children so that, among those who survive, there will be one fit to rule after her. Egeanin also tells him that Akein was a perfect courting gift.

Joline Maza, Teslyn Baradon and Edesina Azzedin are being careless in villages. Joline and Edesina are giving Bethamin Zeami lessons. Setalle Anan says that Seta Zarbey is halfway to admitting that she can see the weaves. Joline and Edesina have found the same loophole in his protection that Adeleas Namelle and Vandene Namelle had and he is afflicted by rocks thrown at him and sparks of fire weaved at him. Joline and Teslyn get into an argument that clears Edesina, Bethamin and Seta out of the wagon. He notices that the rocks and sparks from Joline have stopped afterward. Joline and Edesina try to bully Mat into handing over the foxhead medallion. Mistress Anan tells Mat that Joline would face a fairly harsh penance for theft if she took it from him forcefully. She asks to see the ter'angreal. Mat lets her look at it and allows her to touch it. Mat guesses that she was once Aes Sedai and she admits it, telling Mat that her husband, Jasfer Anan, found her sick on the streets of Ebou Dar and took her to his mother. Setalle guesses that Mat is besotted with Tuon. Mat and Setalle agree to keep each other's secrets.

Valan Luca let slip to the Aes Sedai that Tuon is a Seanchan High Lady. They begin to harass Tuon about treaties and negotiations with the Seanchan to end the fighting. Lopin and Nerim prepare dinner for Mat, Tuon, Selucia, Noal Charin and Olver. After the meal, Olver leaves and Noal starts telling tales about the Seven Towers in dead Malkier and Shol Arbela, the City of Ten Thousand Bells, in Arafel.

Joline, Teslyn and Edesina enter the wagon with demands that the Seanchan end the war before Tarmon Gai'don. Selucia slips an a'dam onto Teslyn's neck and in the confusion also slips one onto Joline. Tuon has the bracelets. Edesina tries to get out the door and Tuon wraps her in Air while the door is slammed in Blaeric Negina's and Fen Mizar's faces. Another a'dam is also put around Edesina's neck then Tuon demonstrates the a'dam on Joline. Mat tries to talk her into letting them go but she refuses. With the warders fighting to get in the wagon, Mat moves to free the women and the foxhead medallion goes cold, which shocks Tuon. Tuon prevents Selucia from attacking Mat so he is able to release Teslyn and Edesina from the a'dam, demanding the Aes Sedai agree to leave Tuon alone. Teslyn and Edesina immediately agree and when he releases Joline, she also agrees to leave Tuon alone. Mat buries the a'dam in a deep hole and gets soaked for his trouble. The dice are still bouncing around inside his head.





Chapter 10. A Village in Shiota 






Point of view: Mat


Matrim Cauthon rides with Tuon and Selucia behind Valan Luca's Grand Traveling Show and Magnificent Display of Marvels and Wonders. Mat watches some ravens and Tuon asks if he saw some sort of omen in them. Mat believes that they or rats can be eyes of the Dark One. Tuon is dismissive and says they are as likely as snakes giving true answers and foxes stealing peoples skins. Mat is disturbed by her unintentional reference to the Finn which of course actually exist. Mat juggles in his saddle which pleases Tuon. Mat enjoys her laugh. As they ride Mat tries to puzzle Tuon's motives and whether she is courting him back. The Traveling Circus comes across comes a strange-looking village. They move into the fields to begin to set up, and see a peddler passing through the village, looking very puzzled at it. Mat recognizes the architecture as that of the country of Shiota, which disappeared centuries ago. He yells to the peddler to keep going, that they are ghosts, but the peddler stops. The village sinks into the ground and vanishes, taking him with it. With difficulty Luca convinces everyone to continue on, after going around the site. Luca finally finds a patch of land to camp down for the night. 

Tuon tells Mat that they will say a prayer tonight, as seeing the dead is a sign that Tarmon Gai'don approaches. Thom and Noal join Mat to play stones with him. Soon Juilin Sandar, Amathera Aelfdene Casmir Lounault and Olver join them and start playing Snakes and Foxes. Egeanin Tamarath and Bayle Domon enter, which causes Amathera to drop to her knees. Egeanin lifts Amathera's head and tells her to meet her and everyone else in the eyes. Amathera keeps her eyes up and Juilin states that this is a change in her personality. Domon says that all things change, even him. Domon had to give up smuggling in order to marry Egeanin. Egeanin invites Juilin and Amathera back to their tent for some drinks, which Juilan accepts. 

Olver continues to play the game, but keeps being beaten by them. Mat finally asks Thom why he keeps reading the letter and looking so puzzled. Thom gives him the letter to read which is revealed to be Moiraine's letter to Thom. Moiraine Damodred addresses it to "My dearest Thom." She says that she is going to confront Lanfear, and that afterward everyone will believe she is dead, but that she is not. She says that if he comes to rescue her with Mat and one other person, a man she does not know, they may succeed, but not otherwise. She says Mat knows the way to find her. Mat argues that Lan's bond was broken meaning Moiraine must be dead. Thom says that that is what everyone would believe. Mat says Moiraine must be trapped with the Aelfinn and Eelfinn, but the doorway melted so he does not know how to reach them. Olver says the Tower of Ghenjei will take them there, as Birgitte Silverbow told him though no one knows where that is. Noal tells them that not even Jain Farstrider has ever seen it. He describes it, and Mat remembers it from his journey down the Arinelle with Thom, Rand, and Domon.  Olver explains that it can be opened making the sign from the Snakes and Foxes game with a bronze knife on the side of it. Mat explains what he knows about the Aelfinn and Eelfinn, including the doors and his memories.   He thinks they will know he is coming and says it's dangerous but Noal then volunteers to be the third man. Thom says he will go to find Moiraine with or without Mat, so Mat reluctantly agrees to come along, at which point the dice stop in his head.





Chapter 11. A Hell in Maderin 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

Valan Luca's traveling show sets out very early in the morning. Well short of midday, they stop near a town called Maderin. Tuon has Selucia tell Matrim Cauthon to come to her wagon where she tells him that she wants to visit a "hell", the roughest sort of tavern. In the end, Thomdril Merrilin takes them to The White Ring, which he thinks is rough enough for Tuon. After a while, Tuon wants to see how lucky Mat is, which leads him to gamble with two merchants. Vane, the third merchant at the table leaves after a round without having wagered a coin. Mat wins every toss until the last at which point he loses everything back. He tells Tuon that was very lucky since winning that often might have gotten him in trouble.

After the game, Thom tells Mat that there are Seanchan armies ahead of them at the border to Murandy in search of a "Daughter of the Nine Moons-imposter" they are to kill. Mat and Thom begin making plans to leave the show soon and head into the forest. When Mat, Thom, Tuon and Selucia leave the White Ring, they are attacked by a large group of swordsmen. Mat kills about seven, earning a lot of gashes, but he would not raise his weapon against the last one, a woman. Before she can kill Mat, Tuon rescues Mat with well placed unarmed combat blows. Mat explains to Tuon that he promised not to kill any more women. Thom, Selucia and Tuon fought another group of six. Thom promises to forget what he saw, which was Selucia acting as a bodyguard rather than a servant.  Mat also managed to lose the gamble on their nick names since Mat called her Tuon and she still hasn't called him Mat. 

They decide to leave Maderin and Luca's show as fast as they can, because Mat recognized Vane, the fellow who left the tavern earlier among the attackers and is afraid of being blamed for the fight since he is a respectable merchant.





Chapter 12. A Manufactory 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin Aybara and his group ride to the north end of Almizar after Travelling by Gateway. Perrin worries about Aram and wishes he could have come since there are many Tinker caravans in the area, but Aram is go close to Masema these days. Faile has been a prisoner of the Shaido for fifty-one days now and nothing matters to Perrin but getting her back safely. One of the clerks is coughing and eventually begins spewing out beetles, probably a bubble of evil, which frightens everyone. Perrin just notes that the beetles are harmless and urges Tylee to continue with her business here. Banner-General Tylee Khirgan of the Seanchan wants to have some raken and fliers provided. Perrin uses the note from Suroth as a substitute for official orders. Although she does not get as many as she wanted to, Perrin urges them on. Perrin mentions all of the gear the support troops are to bring is to be loaded into carts since Neald cannot make a Gateway large enough for wagons.

They ride through town to the forkroot manufactory, to meet with the Imperial Functionary in charge. There are a lot of people reacting to Perrin's yellow eyes. When they reach the building Tylee requests that Perrin only speak to her and she will try to make the case for acquiring the forkroot. The ask for all of the forkroot in stock along with carts and drivers using the note signed by Suroth. The functionary hesitates so Perrin happens to mention that Suroth made threats to anyone that prevented them from taking all of it.

As Tylee and Perrin chat on their way to an inn, Perrin takes an arrow through his arm that was actually aimed at his heart. Tylee asked an awkward question which caused him to twist in his saddle to look at her. After the arrow is removed Neald is ready to heal Perrin, but he doesn't want the Seanchan to see Healing performed. Bakayar Mishima reports the men who shot the arrows poisoned themselves rather than reporting failure, which points at a powerful enemy in Khirgan's opinion. Perrin is puzzled by who would wish him dead since Masema is too far away, but perhaps the Forsaken which he decides to not mention.





Chapter 13. Siege 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne Trakand watches an assault by Arymilla Marne's soldiers while Birgitte leads the defense on the wall. There have been many assaults in recent weeks, sometimes several in one day. Elayne doesn't have enough troops or even mercenaries to guard all of the walls circling Caemlyn. Instead they use the Kin to form gateways to take soldiers to the location of any attack. After the fight, a huge mass of black storm clouds loom over Low Caemlyn. Aviendha channels to disperse them, since Elayne has trouble channeling sometimes, leaving a steady downpour that soaks everyone's clothes. Birgitte wants to get back to the palace as fast as possible, so that the wounded can get Healing. 

Back in the main stableyard of the palace they find a large group of Andoran soldiers led by Guardsman Lieutenant Charlz Guybon. There are ten thousand soldiers with him, having been found by a Kinswomen that was sent to look for loyal troops. 





Chapter 14. Wet Things 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne Trakand, Birgitte Trahelion and Aviendha are walking to Elayne's apartments to dry off after getting soaked in the rain. Reanne Corly meets her in a hallway and mentions that one of the sul'dam admits to seeing weaves and now insists she should be collared as a damane. Elayne proposes to send her back to the Seanchan as evidence that sul'dam can channel. On their way they gather up Reene Harfor, who suggests, like almost everyone they encounter, that they get out of their wet things. As a more important matter, she tells Elayne that the mercenary captains are waiting for a meeting with her. They also run into Renaile din Calon Blue Star and Chanelle din Seran White Shark who want to know what is being done to find their apprentice Talaan din Gelyn who apparently left the Palace and maybe the city with Merilille Ceandevin. When Chanelle comments on her wet clothes Elayne screams as loud as she can since she has been trying to get to her apartments to change but has been constantly interrupted.





Chapter 15. A Different Skill 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

As Elayne heads to her apartments she finds herself getting lost, in a palace where she's lived all her life. It finally becomes apparent that things have shifted around. After getting dressed, Aviendha examines the Dull dagger ter'angreal she has been carrying which she believes protects the bearer from the Shadow's notice. Elayne takes Aviendha to her ter'angreal stash and together they begin examining the items with Aviendha saying what she believes each does. She identifies a Flexible black rod that causes pain, a Metal helmet that operates a machine, an ivory box that holds a large library of music, a White bowl that can see things far away, a tall vase that can gather water from the air, a figurine of a bird and a blue figure of a woman were for talking to people far away, as were some earrings, finger rings and bracelets. She was able to identify the use for many other items as well. Elayne's maid Essande asks about a small male figure holding books and Aviendha distractedly channels into it and it projects the words for lies and not lies or more appropriately, fiction and not fiction. Though Elayne doesn't let Aviendha see, she is distressed at the channeling since they don't know what may have happened and tells Aviendha she shouldn't have done that. When Aviendha begs forgiveness for endangering Elayne and her unborn children, saying she has toh, Elayne replies they are safe due to Min's viewing and she has no toh, but she was worried about Aviendha burning herself out or worse. As they make plans to systematically study everything, Nadere and Dorindha enter and inform Aviendha that the Aiel are leaving Caemlyn, and she will accompany them.

Nadere asks Elayne about her midwife, but she currently does not have one. She is told to get one right away so she eats the right foods for her condition. Essande has a niece that is a midwife, so Melfane Dawlish will be summoned soon to attend Elayne. Elayne gives Aviendha one of the angreal she has along with one of the ter'angreal that allows a sleeper to enter tel'aran'rhiod. They say their farewells and then Aviendha is gone with the Wise Ones.





Chapter 16. The New Follower 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne meets with some of the mercenary captains with Reene, Norry, Mellar, Careane and Sareitha also present. Elayne dismisses Mellar, angering him but she no longer thinks highly of him for saving her life. Birgitte enters as Mellar leaves. The mercenaries are asking for more gold due to their losses so they will be able to afford hiring replacements. Elayne does not give in to their request so they leave dissatisfied. After everyone leaves except Birgitte, Reene and Norry, Elayne petulantly asks to not receive any bad news from them. Reene has learned that Arymilla Marne expects to take the city within days, so there must be some plan better than the ineffective assaults on the city walls. 

Norry has found a man he believes can follow Mellar without getting knifed, which is what has happened to the others that have tried. Samwil Hark is a very ordinary looking man and a remarkably successful thief. For his crimes Hark is going to be hanged unless he can successfully follow Mellar to where he goes at night, then he will be exiled to Baerlon. Elayne uses a finder weave on Hark's belt and clothes and lets him know she will be able to find him in the future if he tries to avoid the task she gave him. Birgitte would like to arrest Mellar and put him to the question, but Elayne can't break the law since they have no proof of any crimes he has committed.

Deni Colford brings word that Dyelin has returned, so Elayne arranges to meet her in the map room.





Chapter 17. A Bronze Bear 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne is on her way to the map room to meet with Dyelin, accompanied by Birgitte. On the way Elayne encounters a number of nobles, all of whom are uneasy for some reason. Birgitte has figured out why they are uneasy. The palace corridors have been shifting about and sometimes even disappearing. Birgitte has an infallible memory for any path she has taken, so she is sure of the changes. At the map room all of the clerks and messengers are asked to leave. Since the Aiel are leaving, Elayne wants to find out the status of Davram Bashere and the Legion of the Dragon since they may be leaving at Rand's orders also and perhaps some of the Asha'man from the Black Tower. Arymilla Marne appears to be preparing for a final assault, hastening due to the presence of the two hundred thousand Borderlanders nearing Caemlyn. Also nearing Caemlyn are sixty thousand armsmen under command of the various High Houses that have not bound themselves to either Elayne or Arymilla. Dyelin has been visiting those nobles over the last few days to find out what their intentions are.

Dyelin enters and complains that she got lost twice on the way to the room. Before she can report, Branlet Gilyard, Catalyn Haevin, Conail Northan and Perival Mantear enter believing they should be present when news of the other High Houses is discussed. Dyelin reports that the other noble houses have decided to stay neutral for the time being.

Later as Elayne is trying to read Vandene enters with Kirstian Chalwin and Zarya Alkaese. Reanne Corly is dead, smothered with the power. Also Zarya has a doll kept by one of the Kin who ran away, except Mirane Larinen would never have left without her doll, so it is presumed that she and the others that are missing may have been killed also. From now on all the Kin are to have at least one partner.

Point of view: Arymilla Marne

Arymilla is dining on nearly rotten food with many of the nobles that support her, even if some do so unwillingly. She expects to take Caemlyn soon with Elayne and Dyelin dying during or after the assault. That will let her pressure the four youthful High Seats to support her and gain the throne. Then all of her forces will be able to deal with the Borderlanders. Her secretary, Jakob Hernvil, arrives to tell her he has reached an agreement but the gold must be paid in advance, but doesn't say who or for what. She expects to launch her successful attack a week from tomorrow.





Chapter 18. News for the Dragon 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand and Loial talk about the information Loial wants for his book on the Dragon Reborn. Nynaeve, Min, Cadsuane and Alivia are present along with two of the fifty Aiel Maidens that arrived. 

When Loial mentions Mat and Perrin, Rand experiences visions of them. Mat is riding through a forest with mounted men following. Perrin is in a tavern talking with a man and woman dressed oddly. He also gets a vision of the man who saved his life in Shadar Logoth when he fought Sammael. However, he doesn't know who the man is.

Logain returns and reports half the Asha'man, including all of those bonded to Aes Sedai, are now in Arad Doman and Illian now. Arad Doman is in chaos with no one really in charge but Rhuarc is putting things in order. He then gives warnings about Mazrim Taim, his special Asha'man and students, and the internal factions within in The Black Tower. Logain suspects that Taim is a Darkfriend but Rand is not convinced. Verin confirms that events clearly indicate Tarmon Gai'don is approaching. Rand is still planning to make a truce with the Seanchan despite opposition from others in his party.

Loial is surprised by a visit from his mother, Elder Haman and Erith, his wife-to-be. He worries that Erith will have him return to Stedding Tsofu and he won't be able to finish his book. Rand is warned by Nynaeve that a terrible storm is coming. He wonders if this refers to Tarmon Gai'don or something else.





Chapter 19. Vows 






Point of view: Loial


Loial heads for the Ogier sitting room that is part of Lord Algarin Pendaloan's manor house. He meets with his mother, Elder Haman and Erith, and talks about how they have been trying to track him down through Cairhien and the Two Rivers, and have now finally found him. Erith chimes in about how heroic Loial was in the Two Rivers and also at Dumai's Wells. Elder Haman confirms with Erith that she wants to marry Loial but Loial is not asked and has no say in the matter. Loial gets married in a very short and direct ceremony. He is torn between love for his new wife and his desire to work on his book. His mother wants to leave as soon as possible to address the Great Stump. She wishes to open the Book of Translation and leave this world so they can return in the future. Elder Haman is opposed to leaving. Erith asks Loial his thoughts but his mother interrupts to say he is too young and can't address the Stump anyway. Erith counters that any married Ogier can address the Stump. Loial says the Ogier need to support the humans in the coming struggle against the Shadow, citing the Ogiers participation in the Trolloc War and the War of Power. While looking out the window he notices the advancing Trollocs. He calls out an alarm and all of them grab weapons made for Ogier that are hanging on the walls.



Point of view: Rand


Rand notices a bad smell but before he can figure out what it means Cadsuane announces Shadowspawn are coming based on her ter'angreal. Logain, the Asha'man and the Aes Sedai battle the advancing Trolloc army, which is one hundred thousand strong. Rand seizes saidin but loses control to Lews Therin during a moment of nausea. Lews Therin eradicates the Trollocs, weaving Deathgates, Arrows of Fire, and Blossoms of Fire. He forms weaves continuously, tying off the Deathgates so they function longer. Lightning bolts and fireballs fall among the Trollocs from the other channelers. Some have also learned the new weaves Lews Therin is using. Finally the battle ends though everyone is still prepared to channel more if necessary. Logain asks about the new weaves, quite suspicious if Rand wants to show them just to his favorites (like Taim),  and where the Trollocs went with the Gateways. Rand tells him that Shadowspawn can not survive using a Gateway. Lews Therin refuses to release saidin after the battle, saying he wants to die. Cadsuane and Min begin to worry when he doesn't release, trying to figure out what he is doing. Finally Lews Therin lets go after promises they will die at the Last Battle.



See also[]


Battle at Lord Algarin's manor




Chapter 20. The Golden Crane 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor


Rand al'Thor walks through the Trolloc bodies littering Algarin Pendaloan's manor grounds. He is concerned about Lews Therin Telamon seizing saidin again before he can. Nandera and the rest of his bodyguards shoot worried looks in Rand's direction, while killing any Trollocs that may have survived the initial attack. The Saldaean soldiers shoot the feeding ravens, but there are far to many to be effective, leaving some of the possible Dark One spies to go free. The Aes Sedai and Asha'man present are all burning the dead bodies. Rand laments that he should have some more Asha'man present, while Lews Therin argues that they should all be killed now. Rand is well aware of Ishamael's trick of tracking ta'veren through the Pattern. Rand receives a message from Verin Mathwin saying that she has taken Tomas and left, leaving a warning for Rand about trusting any Aes Sedai, even those sworn to him, too far. He passes the letter to Cadsuane Melaidhrin. Rand walks to the barn where all the Saldaean dead are being kept. They are all covered in flies. Alivia uses the trick of repelling all the insects. Cadsuane states that Alivia must be watching all the Aes Sedai weave and is learning all that she sees. Rand praises Alivia, telling her to keep learning, which causes Min Farshaw to become defensive over her viewing involving Rand and Alivia.

Loial arrives and tells Rand that he needs to leave his company and speak to the Ogier at the Great Stump. Rand congratulates Loial on marrying Erith. He asks Loial to close all the other Waygates that Rand hasn't managed to close yet. Elder Haman speaks up and states that Loial needs to speak to the other Ogier and that he will accept this mission. Rand meets with Davram Bashere who is saying goodbye to his dead men, including Tumad Ahzkan, whom he was grooming to be his replacement when he retires. He gives the news that the Daughter of the Nine Moons has accepted to meet with Rand in three days. Both Bashere and Logain agree that this meeting is probably a trap. At the meeting only Rand and five other channelers are to be present, but one other non-channeler can attend also, which Min plans to be her.



Point of view: Nynaeve al'Meara


Nynaeve al'Meara and Lan Mandragoran sit in a room where they watch the Asha'man burn the dead Trollocs. Lan forbids Nynaeve to join the clean-up due to her overuse in the One Power. Due to the Sea Folk marriage ceremony, he now has the power to order her around in private. She watches Arel Malevin and Donalo Sandomere carry out the work with their bonded Aes Sedai, Aisling Noon and Ayako Norsoni. She notices that both Aes Sedai and Asha'man are getting along very well. Lan is unimpressed with Rand for doing nothing about sorting out the Borderlander rulers or their armies, as Tarmon Gai'don will sweep through ruined Malkier into Tarwin's Gap and then into Shienar. He feels he needs to be there to do something. Nynaeve agrees but believes her role is still to watch over Rand and keep an eye on Alivia. She takes an oath from Lan, that if she takes him through a Gateway into the Borderlands, and if men ask to join him, he must allow it and lead them. She transports him not into Shienar, but to World's End on the Aryth Ocean in Saldaea, which will give him a chance to survive since other men will join him. There she steps into a Gateway and leaves him to ride alone to Tarwin's Gap.



Point of view: Weilin Aldragoran


Weilin Aldragoran is selling his gems to a couple of merchants from Illian in Saldaea. He reflects on how Trollocs ravaged his birthplace of Malkier when he was just an infant. He now wears the hadori, while a number of his countryman refuse to. Gorenellin and Managan who are both selling their wares close by, are examples. Aldragoran typically gets a much better bargain for his gems than he expected due to people fearing the worst of men who wear the hadori. A hooded woman approaches him asking him to send messages via pigeon, to all his contacts that Tarmon Gai'don is approaching. He notices the great serpent ring on her finger and the ki'sain on her forehead and reluctantly agrees to do as she asks. She also tells Aldragoran that her husband Lan Mandragoran plans to ride to Tarmon Gai'don and asks if he will ride alone. Aldragoran swears an oath that he will ride with Lan. The Aes Sedai says she needs to visit some other places before ending in Tear tonight. Aldragoran asks his countrymen Gorenellin and Managan if they will join him to which they both begin to celebrate the rising of the Golden Crane.



Notes[]








Chapter 21. Within the Stone 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor


Rand, Min, Nynaeve, Cadsuane, and Alivia arrive at the Stone of Tear which has been under siege after leaving Loial and the other Ogier at Stedding Shangtai. One of the inventors from the school he established in Cairhien is still developing his train. Min views many people that will die of hunger in the street. He can tell Alanna Mosvani is inside the Stone through his bond with her. Since the Stone is under siege, Rand goes to a nearby inn to get a room with a view that will let him Travel inside. The innkeeper is going to refuse Rand's request until Cadsuane reveals herself as Aes Sedai, then they quickly receive a room. Rand makes a Gateway to the Heart of Stone where Callandor used to reside. A guard suggests Rand have a guide to Darlin since the corridors have been shifting recently but Rand just uses his bond to Alanna to find the way.

Darlin and Caraline Damodred are in the room with Alanna. Weiramon Saniago is there also and Rand is not pleased since he gave no orders for him to leave his post. Weiramon staged an attack on the rebels which failed and interrupted the peace negotiations. Darlin has tried to feed the people in the city but either the food spoils or the rebels take it for themselves. Bera Harkin enters to tell Rand that an agreement was made just that morning with the rebels. They are to be fined but their lands are to be restored to them. In return Darlin is to be crowned king and they will swear to him. Darlin is surprised by the agreement and Rand is furious at their terms, though Cadsuane uses the Power to reprimand him. She reminds him that his terms were met and he realizes she is correct, though he is bothered that they will swear fealty to Darlin instead of him. Min offers to help design the crown, based on what she saw in one of her viewings. Rand then wants Darlin to gather all of the fighting men available so they can travel to Arad Doman where they can help get ready for Tarmon Gai'don.





Chapter 22. To Make an Anchor Weep 






Point of view: Harine din Togara Two Winds

Harine is on her way by boat to a meeting of the First Twelve of the Atha'an Miere. The harbor is filled with ships including many Seanchan vessels that were taken when the Sea Folk escaped from Ebou Dar and there are many more outside the harbor that have no room to anchor. She arrives at a large Seanchan vessel where the meeting is to be held. Others of the First Twelve either ignore Harine or are openly discourteous due to her Bargain with Rand which resulted in a thrashing. Even in disfavor she still has Min's viewing that she will someday be Mistress of Ships to keep up her spirits.

The purpose of the meeting is to meet with Logain who was sent by the Dragon Reborn, the Sea Folk Coramoor. Amylia, the Aes Sedai teacher Harine brought from Caemlyn calls Logain tainted since he can channel saidin and that the White Tower should be involved in any discussions with him. Zaida cuts her off short, stating she has no fear of the White Tower's wrath. Logain informs them that saidin is now clean, not tainted. Harine wants to know where the Coramoor is so she can send an ambassador to him. Logain tells her that is location is secret but Harine will be acceptable as his ambassador. Logain is invoking the terms of the Bargain to have the Sea Folk ships carry supplies from Illian and Tear to Bandar Eban. Harine does not find that too onerous until he tells her that supplies for a million people are needed.

The Shipmistress interrupts the meeting to tell Harine a messenger has arrived. Three weeks ago Amayar couples began asking the gift of passage to every island the Sea Folk Use. Then the Amayar disappeared from the Sea Folk cities. When their villages were investigated, they were all dead or dying. Their actions were based on a prophecy that some day the Choedan Kal on Tremalking would melt, which it did after Rand cleansed saidin.





Chapter 23. Call to a Sitting 






Point of view: Romanda Cassin

Romanda is reading while pondering the food spoilage problem even though weaves are being used to prevent it. Nisao Dachen enters her tent and requests a private meeting. While waiting for Bodewhin Cauthon to leave she wishes something could be done about the older women that have been accepted as novices by Egwene. Nisao is concerned that Lelaine Akashi has asked her to stop investigating the murders of Anaiya Carel and Kairen Stang, saying it is Blue Ajah business. She then informs Romanda that she had orders from Egwene to investigate the deaths and Romanda says she will support her, but she wants reports about the situation.

Theodrin Dabei enters to announce a sitting of the Hall of the Tower. Sheriam is standing outside the tent where the Hall will meet, not allowed in to the meeting without the Amyrlin. More Sitters arrive and they decide to begin even though some are absent. A ward is made to prevent others from listening and only Sitters are allowed to be present. Merise Haindehl is brought in trailed by three Warders, which the Sitters begin to realize are also Asha'man. Cadsuane asked Merise to bring the proposal to the Rebel Aes Sedai after the Dragon Reborn asked her to take care of it. Jahar Narishma enters but before he can make his proposal he announces a man nearby just channeled. Nacelle Kayama is then called forward to show a new weave that can identify the presence of saidin, something the Sisters have never been able to do before. Jahar then makes the offer from Rand which is any Aes Sedai that is loyal to Egwene can bond an Asha'man up to total of forty-seven to compensate for the fifty-one sisters bonded by Asha'man at the Black Tower. He also informs the Hall that saidin is clean now, though not mentioning Rand in this regard.

A consensus is quickly reached to accept the offer since it will allow the sisters to make larger circles without the need for special agreements with the Black Tower. The sisters are told to remember the name Eben Hopwil who died fighting during the battle of Shadar Logoth, killed by a female Forsaken that was channeling saidin. Romanda puts together all of the information she has about the Aes Sedai deaths and says that Halima and Delana should be arrested. When searching for them, the sisters realize they have fled the camp before they can be captured.





Chapter 24. Honey in the Tea 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene, being reduced to novice, begins her campaign of opposition and undermining Elaida's rule from within the White Tower. She is sent to regular sessions of punishment with the Mistress of Novices, Silviana Brehon, but refuses to yield landing herself punishments several times each day. After her first strapping she refuses to curtsy to Silviana since she is the Amyrlin Seat, earning her another punishment later that day. After breakfast she receives a small dose of Forkroot so that she can only channel a small amount for her lessons. Her lessons with the other novices earn her more punishments since she continually outdoes her instructors.

The polarization in the Tower by Ajah is extreme with sisters glaring at each other whenever they meet if they are not in the same Ajah. She is determined to stay in the Tower and will not attempt escape, and agrees on this with Leane Sharif, who is being kept as a prisoner. She meets with a number of sisters, learning and getting information from some, passing on things she hopes to undermine Elaida at others and also gaining additional punishments. She starts to consider each punishment a victory in her war to not yield.

The Novices begin giving Egwene more respect after her first day in the Tower. She begins helping some of the novices with their weaves and giving advice to others but always just one at a time. The Tower also has problems with portions shifting around which is frightening to the novices, but Egwene tries to comfort them as best she can. Egwene is also given many chores to perform when she is not in lessons or being punished.

Alviarin approaches Egwene and suggests helping her to escape. Egwene tells her she is content with her situation.

She encounters Mattin Stepaneos while scrubbing floors, and he says he wishes to speak with her. Egwene informs the King of Illian that the Dragon Reborn did not kill the rulers of Cairhien, Tear, and Caemlyn. She was then ordered to visit Silviana for shirking her duties and ignoring the orders of the Aes Sedai accompanying Mattin, but she knows she planted a seed of doubt in his head.  

Egwene runs into Beonin Marinye and initially believes she was the one to betray her. Beonin decided that since Egwene was captured she was no longer Amyrlin so her oath no longer applied. Egwene wins her over quickly enough, and agrees to follow Egwene's instructions that will further undermine Elaida. Beonin admits she wants to bring Elaida down as much as Egwene does. Beonin is ordered to run messages to the sisters sent to infiltrate the Tower.

Egwene has not had any headaches or dark dreams since she was captured. She visits Leane and mentions meeting Beonin. Leane suggests Beonin may have been a spy for Elaida, but now is beginning to see that Elaida is not a suitable Amyrlin.

She meets with Doesine for healing and Egwene realizes that since she still uses the old way of healing, Beonin did not share the new weave with Elaida. When Doesine asks if Egwene will ever surrender to the beatings she responds that the Amyrlin should never surrender. When Doesine does not call her out for punishment for that comment, Egwene sees it as a victory. 

After meeting with Silviana for yet another punishment, Egwene asks how Shemerin was able to be reduced to an Accepted from Aes Sedai since there was no precedent for it. Silviana says because there was no ban on the process, there was a loophole and Elaida took advantage of it. When dismissing her, Silviana seems impressed by Egwene's ability to withstand the repeated strappings she is given and doesn't even remark on her lack of a curtsy. When Egwene enters the dining area for breakfast, the Novices rise to their feet as she enters. Ashelin goes to the kitchen to get Egwene's breakfast tray which even has honey in the tea. She has a cushion on her seat too, but she moves it away before sitting. So far, she believes she is winning her war.





Chapter 25. Attending Elaida 






Point of view: Tarna Feir



So much? I want her tamed to the Tower's harness, not brokenElaida on Egwene's treatment in the hands-on Silviana
So much? I want her tamed to the Tower's harness, not broken— Elaida on Egwene's treatment in the hands-on Silviana


Even wearing the Keeper's stole, Tarna Feir does not feel safe while she climbs the staircases to Elaida's apartments. Twice, the staircases were not located where she remembered them. Also, the growing dissension between the Ajahs gives her pause, as she travels to the other Ajah quarters only when duty forces it upon her. She ponders the question Pevara asked: Who can she ask of the Red Ajah to bond an Asha'man?

Elaida is in her sitting room, together with a very flustered Meidani. Meidani immediately leaves the room when Elaida asks. The Amyrlin comments on how she and Meidani were once pillow friends and she's considering allowing Meidani to renew the relationship again to gain information. Tarna suppresses her surprise and shock at this, thinking that being pillow friends is a girlhood activity that should be left behind once the shawl is attained. But she merely mentions that her plan may not work since Meidani appears afraid of Elaida, then Tarna begins her reports. Elaida's plot to have the Sitters watch members of their own Ajah has borne little fruit. The rebellion in Tarabon against the Seanchan failed. The seals to the Dark One's prison are still missing. The works to remove the cuendillar chains from Southharbor proceed slowly, with little support from any Aes Sedai not of the Red Ajah.

The litany of failure angers Elaida, who orders Tarna to write an edict proclaiming the punishment of any Sitter who fails to order support of the Southharbor project. In addition, she orders the same for any Sitter who continues to send sisters to negotiations with the Rebel Aes Sedai. Tarna fails to talk her out of it.

Elaida jumps to the subject of Egwene al'Vere. Elaida is surprised by the amount of visits to Silviana Brehon but Tarna eases her fears, expressing doubt that Silviana will break the girl (while diplomatically leaving out Egwene’s willpower). Tarna is tasked to have her attend Elaida's dinner with Meidani that evening.

Point of view: Matrim Cauthon Setting: Altara, 300 miles from the Damona Mountains



She might have said that men are pigs, or just that you are. She may have said you're a mud-footed country lout with dirt in your ears and hay in your hair. Or she might have said-Setalle Anan on Tuon's interpretation about Mat's manners
She might have said that men are pigs, or just that you are. She may have said you're a mud-footed country lout with dirt in your ears and hay in your hair. Or she might have said-— Setalle Anan on Tuon's interpretation about Mat's manners


Mat shares a dinner of rabbit and grouse with Tuon, Selucia, and Setalle. Lopin cleans up Mat's trash as he wipes greasy hands on his pants. Tuon and Selucia communicate with sign language and Setalle offers to help Mat understand the commentary about his uncouthness. Aludra pauses in her game of stones with Thom to chide him about wasting her strikers to light his pipe, complaining men always find a way to make work for women. Olver and Noal are playing Snakes and Foxes again, and Noal is regaling them with stories of a city where foreigners could only leave with permission and by ship but the residents were never allowed to leave. Mat is reminded by the game of his promise to go with Thom to save Moiraine from the Eelfin and Aelfin and is still uneasy by it. 





He ponders their journey so far and the changes in his party, one of which is Seta forcing the Aes Sedai to begin her training when she copied a weave made by Bethamin. Returning Tuon to Ebou Dar remains at the forefront of his mind. A blacklance spreads chaos throughout the party until Mat says to leave it alone as it was heading out of camp. His mercy with the venemous snake prompts Tuon to give him permission to kiss her. The first kiss causes Tuon to insult his skill, asking if she reminds him of his sister, or perhaps his mother. The second improves her demeanor... for a moment, then she claims that he feels feverish. As they debate about the need for ointments, Harnan announces riders approaching the camp, one of them Chel Vanin.

Talmanes, to Mat's chagrined surprise, is the second rider. He gives Mat an update on Egwene's victories, confirming she truly was raised as Amyrlin by the Rebel Aes Sedai, prompting immediate interruption, and doubt, by the Aes Sedai: Joline, Teslyn, and Edesina. Mat presses Talmanes for news about the Band and is shocked by how big his army has become. He worries about being able to pay so many men. Ever calm, Talmanes recounts a deal he made with Roedran  supplied the Band with a year's pay, slipping in Mat's relationship with the Dragon Reborn. Unfortunately, the pass they planned to use was closed by a landslide, so another exit from Altara will be needed. Mat directs Talmenes to lead the party to the Band, while he thinks.





Chapter 26. As If the World Were Fog 






A battle won't get you out of Altara.""In that case, he's planning us a war.Tuon and Talmanes on Mat
A battle won't get you out of Altara.""In that case, he's planning us a war.— Tuon and Talmanes on Mat


Point of view: Tuon Athaem Kore Paendrag Setting: Eastern Altara





Tuon follows Mat during his rendezvous with the Band and Talmanes, and they find that the pass out of Altara is blocked. She is shocked to learn of her failure at discovering his relationship with the Dragon Reborn. She also learns of the new crank the crossbowmen with Talmanes have and is determined to get one to copy.

She converses with Thom Merrilin about the odd coincidence of meeting Mat's army in the middle of the woods. Merrilin explains the theory of ta'veren, which Tuon dismisses as local myth as a passing finch gives her an omen to stick close to Toy.

Selucia points out the group's entry into the Band's camp. Tuon is surprised by the eager expressions on the faces of the troops as Mat enters. She expected any army of Toy's to be a ragtag affair, but is shocked to find disciplined troops instead. Tuon is learning all she can since she is still responsible for conquering all of these lands. She also expects to deal with Leilwin and Bayle Domon as a traitors, punish Juilin as a thief for taking Thera from Ebou Dar, return Thera to her owners, and to see the marath'damane leashed.

Mat confers with the Band's new mapmaker and surveys maps of Seanchan encampments, mentally preparing for battles against the Seanchan, much to Tuon's annoyance. She converses with Mat's officers in order to learn more about him, and is disconcerted to learn that they knows little. Tuon finally realizes she doesn't know Mat at all.

Point of view: Perrin Aybara Setting: Malden, Altara





Perrin sits astride Stepper as he supervises a combination of Seanchan soldiers and his own followers during a chilly night. It has been fifty-four days since Faile was taken. The Seanchan, Two Rivers men, Mayeners, and Ghealdanin pour forkroot into the aqueduct leading into Malden with hopes that it will neutralize the Shaido Wise Ones before the attempt to rescue Faile. He coordinates with Snowy Dawn to make sure the wolves will be ready for the attack in two days.

Perrin bids farewell to the advance team that will infiltrate Malden via the aqueduct. He fights to curb his desire to join the advance team and reach Faile; he knows he would not be able to stick to the plan and would instead search for Faile. He returns to the Gateway and Jur Grady, who is very tired from all the Gateways he has had to make to get everything in position.



The Advance Team[]


Seonid Traighan and her Warders Furen Alharra and Teryl Wynter with Masuri's Warder Rovair Kirklin
Elyas Machera
Tallanvor
Twenty members of Cha Faile led by Selande Darengil
Fifty Two Rivers men led by Ban al'Seen
Gaul who is anxious to find Chiad before any other Aiel can do so


Point of view: Perrin Aybara Setting: Brytan, Altara

Perrin ignores his weariness as he spies a raken landing with a messenger. He meets Berelain in his tent, entertaining Banner-General Tylee Khirgan. The Seanchan reports that seven thousand Whitecloaks deserted and are moving north. She also reports that two large groups of Aiel are heading toward Malden and will arrive in three days. Suddenly a ripple in the pattern threatens to destroy all of creation.  Perrin refocuses the frightened people attending the meeting, squashing their fear with his resolve.

Point of view: Faile Bashere Setting: Malden, Altara

Faile flirts with Rolan in the noonday sun as several Shaido stagger drunkenly around them. Galina Casban approaches her and Rolan departs, but not before tracing a finger along her cheek. Galina demands the Oath Rod that she knows Faile somehow stole from Therava. Faile demands that the Aes Sedai promise to help her and her friends escape. She secures the promise, but not before they slap each other. Galina promises to help them escape tomorrow, the day of Perrin’s attack.





Chapter 27. A Plain Wooden Box 






Point of view: Rand


Rand is in Altara, preparing to attend a meeting with the Daughter of the Nine Moons. He wears the crown of Illian and carries the Dragon Scepter. He is accompanied by a group of Maidens of the Spear led by Nandera, Saldaeans led by Davram Bashere, and a number of Aes Sedai and Asha'man.

Only Min, Cadsuane, Nynaeve, Narishma, Logain, and Donalo will accompany him directly to the manor house of Lady Deirdru. Donalo and Narishma were chosen because they are the strongest Asha'man after Logain. There is a strong opinion from several that the meeting is a trap.

The others in Rand's entourage, including Alivia, will wait behind due to the agreement on how large the party can be. Alivia revealed also that the Daughter of the Nine Moons is actually the heir to the Empress.





Once they arrive at the manor house for the meeting, the Asha'man seize saidin but Rand doesn't since he still suffers from dizziness when he does and it risks Lews Therin taking the Power from him. A small veiled woman emerges accompanied by three sul'dam-damane pairs. Nynaeve says one of the women is channeling. Cadsuane says she will be able to interfere with it.

The small woman steps forward and flickers as a disguise, thanks to Cadsuane's ter'angreal, disappears. Rand states that it is Semirhage and starts to seize saidin but fights with Lews Therin who tries to take it from him. Semirhage throws a ball of fire at Rand, and he raises the Dragon Scepter before him, shielding Min. He is thrown to the ground, and, when he recovers, finds that the scepter has been destroyed and his left hand has been burned off.

Many other damane and sul'dam were waiting inside the house, nevertheless they were defeated; Semirhage and the majority of Seanchan have been captured, some of them killed. Suddenly other people in Rand's entourage arrive, because they were not far away, and Merise heals the badly injured Narishma. Ayako does the same with Donalo.





Nynaeve heals Rand's wrist to a smooth stump. The dragon mark on his arm regrows where there is still flesh. His eyes are injured, but she does not know how to treat them. Everything looks watery and the sun is too bright. Black flecks shimmer briefly in his vision.

Rand identifies Semirhage again based on memories from Lews Therin. Semirhage says that Rand is insane and hears Lews Therin as a voice in his head. She says this is nearly incurable and terminates abruptly into complete madness.

Rand wants the damane and sul'dam to be returned to Ebou Dar with the message that the Dragon Reborn still wants to meet with the Daughter of the Nine Moons.

Inside the house, in a plain wooden box, there were enough male and female a'dam to capture Rand's entire party.

Point of view: Mat

Mat is running a campaign to drive the Seanchan out of northern Altara so he can escape through the mountain passes. Teslyn warns Mat that Joline may try to bond him, perhaps even without his permission and Tuon emphatically states that she cannot have him. Teslyn then tries to get him to abandon his plan as too risky but he just ignores her. Mat is using Aes Sedai to send signals in the sky. He attacks a smaller camp that has a raken in order to lure a larger camp to reinforce them along a road. He sets an ambush of crossbowmen at the exit of a ravine where a Seanchan force will emerge. The Seanchan arrive, and Mat's army destroys them with several rounds of the Band's new crossbows. He moves on, leaving the survivors behind and un-Healed.





Chapter 28. In Malden 






Point of view: Faile Bashere

Faile is preparing for her last day in the Shaido camp since Galina has promised to rescue her now that they acquired the Oath Rod. Dairaine Saighan enters and, realizing an escape is planned, she tries to leave to inform Sevanna. Maighdin says she is lying and with Faile's and Alliandre's help they bind and gag her. Bain and Chiad will deal with Dairaine at Faile's request. Faile, Alliandre, Maighdin, Lacile Aldorwin, and Arrela Shiego head in to Malden carrying baskets of laundry with supplies for their escape hidden beneath the clothes. They enter a former inn and Faile retrieves the Oath Rod she hid there. They meet Galina at a half-burned house that looks unstable but Galina says it is sound. They enter and descend to the basement where Galina takes the Oath Rod. Galina acts as if she hears something and goes upstairs to check. Suddenly beams and boards collapse around them blocking the exit. They call for Galina but there is no answer. They begin to carefully try to clear the stairs but it is slow going since they don't want more of the building to collapse on them. Faile thinks she hears wolves and briefly thinks of Perrin. Faile asks Maighdin to channel to make a red scarf at the building's entrance move so someone might notice it. Her channeling is very sporadic though and weak but she does her best.

Point of view: Galina Casban

Galina leaves the town wishing she had killed Therava, but not daring, not even sure if she had the nerve to do so. Wolves howl nearby and then she sees the ridge above her is covered in fog. She realizes this precedes Perrin's attack on the Shaido so she is glad she is leaving and that Faile is trapped in the town or her lies would be exposed.





Chapter 29. The Last Knot 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin stands at the edge of the fog looking over the Shaido encampment and the town of Malden. Neald created the fog and it will persist at least until noon by which time the battle should be over one way or the other. Masema arrives on the other side of the ridge instead of staying with his twenty-thousand followers on the eastern ridge. Basel Gill is waiting and Perrin instructs him to take the non-combatants north and make for the Jehannah Road where he will catch up later. Sulin appears out of the fog to report the northern Shaido sentries are dead along with their replacements although two Maidens died during the fighting. Masema is with Berelain, the Aes Sedai, the Wise Ones and Aram. Masema mentions the Dragon Reborn and Perrin has a vision of Rand, Min and a Asha'man that shows Rand is missing his left hand.

A Seanchan lieutenant arrives by Gateway to report two other Shaido septs are moving faster than expected and could arrive by noon. Perrin decides that no changes will be made in the plan and lets the lieutenant return.

Point of view: Faile Bashere

Faile and the others continue to encourage Maighdin in her attempts to attract attention by channeling to wave a red scarf outside the building where they are trapped. The flag waves a few times, then Aravine appears and sees Faile in the basement, calling out to others. She explains Theril followed Faile and saw Galina pull on a timber, causing the building to collapse, but thought they had died in the rubble until he saw the scarf wave. He then ran to get Aravine and others loyal to Faile. Rolan and his friends are there and they begin clearing the timbers and boards.

Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Gallenne would like to kill Masema so he won't have an opportunity to harm Berelain but Perrin says they will only kill Shaido today. Grady finally arrives, bringing Tam al'Thor and other men from the Two Rivers. Tam asks Perrin if it's true that Rand is the Dragon Reborn and Perrin confirms that he is. A bird call of alarm sounds since a large group of Shaido are heading toward the ridge where Perrin waits. He decides to show himself but drops his knotted rope on the ground since he has no need of it now. The Ghealdan and Mayene horses move out of the fog, then the Two Rivers men with their longbows. The Wise Ones, Aes Sedai and Aiel Maidens also move out of the fog. Tam has three or four thousand bowmen while the Aiel number at least twenty thousand. The Battle of Malden begins. The Aiel finally turn back from the hail of arrows. The bowmen begin a slow advance, still stopping to fire while the horsemen begin a charge. Perrin is out front, running for the gates of the town where he expects to find Faile and nothing is going to keep him from her.





Chapter 30. Outside the Gates 






Point of view: Faile Bashere

It is almost noon and there is incessant thunder. Rolan, Kinhuin and Jhoradin have cleared some of the stairway. Rolan helps them climb out one at a time, Faile, then Maighdin, Arrela, Lacile and Alliandre. In the street there are a hundred or more of the people who swore fealty to Faile. Aravine hands her a waterskin. She can see that the sky is clear and there is a One Power battle going on. Jhoradin helps Lacile and Aldin helps Arrela, though she does not like men. After drinking, Maighdin collapses due to the forkroot in the town water supply. Rolan says he will hide Faile until nightfall then take her to the forest to escape. They will have to abandon the supplies since the building collapsed but Rolan promises to supply what is needed. Aldin carries Maighdin as they walk through Malden followed by Theril.

Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin is only a hundred paces from the gates of Malden. As he fights two Shaido, Aram attacks him. Convinced by Masema that Perrin and Elyas are Shadowspawn, Aram intends to kill Perrin to save Faile. Two Shaido arrows kill Aram while he is focused on Perrin. Turning a corner, he sees a horde of people in white led by three veiled Shaido algai'd'siswai. One, who would have dwarfed Lamgwin, pulls Faile. Perrin leaps at him and kills him with his hammer after Faile distracted him by calling Perrin's name. Faile and Lacile stab the other two in the back when they join in the attack. He takes Faile in his arms and is filled with her scent but she also smells guilty and ashamed, so Perrin thinks she was raped.[verify] Perrin tells them all to head north, the safest direction. He sends Theril to the fortress to tell Ban al'Seen, Seonid and the others they can come out now.  

When Perrin discovers the woman he knew as Alyse didn't take Faile with her during her escape, Faile says she was actually Galina and figures she must be Black Ajah. Theril and those from the fortress return in a quarter hour. Selande and the other Cha Faile cluster around Faile. Rovair Kirklin goes to find Masuri. Tallanvor cradles Maighdin. Gaul goes to find Chiad and Elyas accompanies him. Furen and Teryl are with Seonid. She Heals Perrin, then Faile. She hears Faile mention Galina and after hearing the story, Seonid claims the right to try her in the White Tower. Perrin is irate but Faile reminds him how he required formal proof when Jon Thane accused Jac Coplin and Len Congar of stealing a cow. The battle is now over. Tylee rides up with Sevanna naked and tied across her horse. Most of Masema's men on the east ridge are dead but he escaped with roughly a hundred of his men. The sul'dam have already collared over two hundred Shaido Wise Ones. Fortunately, Perrin's forces suffered only light casualties. Faile claims Sevanna's wealth to help restore the hundred thousand prisoners the Shaido took. Perrin introduces Faile and Alliandre to Tylee and reminds her that Ghealdan is under his protection. They need to get going before the other two Shaido septs arrive. Perrin thought he was making a deal with the Dark One but now Tylee asks him to call her by her first name and he says the same.

Point of view: Galina Casban

Galina retrieves her stash and packs Swift's saddlebags. Out in the woods, she is in the middle of changing clothes when Therava finds her and recovers the binder. With Therava are other Wise Ones, including Belinde and Modarra, and several hundred Shaido. Therava says the Shaido will regroup and return to the Three-Fold Land, never to leave again. They will rebuild even though it will take generations. Galina is broken; she will be Therava's little Lina for the rest of her life.





Chapter 31. The House on Full Moon Street 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne has been woken because another Kin woman has been murdered. Sumeko is still resistant to telling the Kin they can never be alone but Alise is more practical. She also wanders what hurt Rand enough that she felt it through the bond. Deni Colford enters, announcing an Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah to see her. Duhara Basaheen enters without permission and begins giving orders for the Kin to disperse since the White Tower does not condone wilders gathering together. Duhara berates Elayne for calling herself Aes Sedai, which angers Elayne. She was raised Aes Sedai, chose the Green Ajah and was admitted which settles the matter completely. Duhara leaves, being escorted out of the palace since Elayne won't provide her with a bed.

Halwin Norry arrives with Samwil Hark, the thief set to find out where Doilan Mellar goes when he leaves the palace. Mellar has gone to a house on Full Moon Street three nights in a row. Hark identified two Aes Sedai in the house and from their descriptions they are Marillin Gemalphin and Falion Bhoda. Elayne orders Birgitte, and the Aes Sedai with their Warders to be woken to take a ride. Then Deni gets the task of arresting Mellar and locking him in a basement storeroom. Hark wants to be free of the finder Elayne put on him but instead she has Norry take charge of him for finding spies in the palace.

Elayne and the three Aes Sedai will enter the house to capture the two Black Aes Sedai. Birgitte objects but Elayne won't change her plan. Jaem scouts the house noting doors that are unlocked and he ties up a big fellow that was sleeping in the stable. Elayne links with Sareitha Tomares while Vandene links with Careane Fransi. Either Careane or Sareitha is a Darkfriend but they won't be able to channel while linked to another sister. They hide their ability to channel so the other Aes Sedai won't be able to sense a nearby channeler. They enter the house and up the stairs to a room where a conversation is taking place. The two Black sisters are shielded before they have a chance to do anything. Suddenly sparks erupt everywhere, breaking Elayne's ability to channel. 

Elayne finds herself shielded as four other Black Sisters enter the room. One of them, Asne (the others being Chesmal, Temaile and Eldrith), explains and shows a bent black rod, that can kill or stun at a hundred paces, a  ter'angreal that she just used against Elayne and the others. Marillin tells the others that Careane is also a Black Sister so Vandene stabs and kills her since Careane must have murdered her sister Adeleas. Chesmal then kills rapidly Vandene and Sareitha, using her typical healing waves to stop the heart without leaving a sign. Through the bond Elayne wishes for Birgitte to run.





Chapter 32. To Keep the Bargain 






Point of view: Birgitte Trahelion

Birgitte is waiting while Elayne and the other Aes Sedai go to capture two Black sisters in a nearby house. Birgitte feels Elayne's alarm and a sense of conscious-yet-unsteady "limpness." The Warders sense discomfort in their Aes Sedai also. The Warders then go berserk and charge at the house indicating their Aes Sedai have died. Birgitte reins in the guardswoman since she realizes a battle against Aes Sedai would be hopeless. She leads everyone back to the palace at a furious pace. Before she reaches the palace she can sense Elayne moving at walking speed. She arranges to meet all of the Windfinders and Captain Charlz Guybon in the map room.

At the map room Birgitte sees that many assaults have started on the palace walls but that is of lesser concern to her. She plans to move all of the horsemen and foot soldiers outside the city to the east letting the archers handle the assaults on the walls. Two of the Kin arrive to report that the heads of the High Houses not sworn to Elayne or Arymilla Marne have started moving toward the city and could be there later in the day. Chanelle din Seran White Shark enters with the other Windfinders, upset that the guardswomen threatened her if she didn't hurry. Birgitte tells them they need to make a gateway to position the soldiers for a rescue. Chanelle objects since it is not part of the Bargain, but Birgitte points out the Bargain will be lost if Elayne is.

An injured guardsman is brought to Birgitte reporting that some of Elayne's mercenaries are trying to open a gate to allow a large force to enter the city. She diverts some of her force with Dyelin in charge to go secure the gate. She has the Windfinders make the Gateway then asks Chanelle to come through it to see something, which causes the other Windfinders to follow. Birgitte spots a wagon with a small mounted party and can sense through the bond that Elayne is in the wagon. As the soldiers organize the Black sisters begin to channel lightning and other offensive weaves, slaughtering the soldiers. One of the Black sisters uses a ter'angreal to channel balefire, killing many of the soldiers, burning them out of the pattern. Birgitte convinces Chanelle that she must intervene if the Bargain with Elayne is to be kept. Lightning strikes the woman with the balefire ter'angreal. The other Black sisters are then shielded and the men with the party bound by weaves. Birgitte can sense Elayne, still unafraid despite all that was going on around her.





Chapter 33. Nine Out of Ten 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Elayne has been shielded, bound tightly and gagged and stuffed in to a wagon box. She feels confident though since Min's viewing said her babes would be born safely and also she can sense Birgitte making plans. The Black sisters begin channeling and Elayne is saddened by knowing men are dying trying to rescue her. Birgitte unties her bonds and she exits the wagon box to see what the situation is. Asne Zeramene is dead on the road. The other Black sisters, Temaile Kinderode, Falion Bhoda, Chesmal Emry, Marillin Gemalphin along with Shiaine Avarhin and the Warders are all bound, with the sisters shielded. Chesmal asks how they were found to which Elayne replies via her Warder. Marillin had heard Birgitte was Elayne's warder but did not inform the others.

Birgitte updates Elayne on the situation, attacks on the northern wall, a large force outside the Far Madding Gate, mercenaries that changed allegiance trying to open the gate and the other High Houses on their way to Caemlyn. Elayne decides to attack Arymilla Marne's forces from the rear with the men that were involved in her rescue. Elayne convinces Chanelle din Seran White Shark to make a Gateway to near the Far Madding Gate and her forces move through to attack. The horse begin a charge and tear into the force at the gate, who are all bunched up and unable to maneuver. The gate opens and more of Elayne's forces from the city exit to attack. It takes a half hour of slaughter but finally cries of quarter begin to be heard and the battle winds down.

Arymilla, Naean Arawn and Elenia Sarand are captured and brought to Elayne. Shortly after Lir Baryn and Karind Anshar are brought to Elayne. Sylvase Caeren arrives and announces her support for Elayne since Nasin Caeren suffered a seizure leaving her as the head of House Caeren. Lir and Karind also announce their support for Elayne providing her with nine of the ten houses she needs to be confirmed as queen. Now she only has to wait and see what the other noble houses have planned.





Chapter 34. A Cup of Kaf 






Point of view: Furyk Karede

Furyk is visiting one of the Seanchan camps in northern Altara where the Deathwatch Guards are not respected. He is still searching for Tuon, four weeks of chasing rumors with no results yet. Gamel Loune the camp commander meets with Furyk and discusses the recent defeats the Ever Victorious Army has been having lately while they sip their Kaf. The opposing force has Aes Sedai and maybe Asha'man since some bodies have been torn apart without female channeling. Furyk suspects the commander is Thom Merrilin, possibly not his real name. General Chisen is bringing his entire force from the northern border to try to deal with the attacks. Furyk reasons that the reason for the attacks is to open up the northern border to allow the kidnapped Tuon to be taken out of Altara. He tells Musenge that they will ride for the Malvide Narrows and hope to catch up in the four days it will take to get there.





Chapter 35. The Importance of Dyelin 






Point of view: Elayne Trakand

Hanselle Renshar is meeting with Elayne to request safe conduct for the other Lords and Ladies of High Houses in Andor. Elayne does not know their motives and fears they may assault the city or demand she surrender. Finally she writes out the safe conduct for Luan Norwelyn, Arathelle Renshar, Pelivar Coelan, Aemlyn Carand, Ellorien Traemane and Abelle Pendar appending that they must speak of the Borderlanders which have an army of two hundred thousand not too far from the city. Elayne knows the Borderlanders' plan but is using their presence to try to secure her throne. Dyelin affirms that she does not want the throne and is confident that Elayne will be one of the best queens Andor has had.

Melfane Dawlish the midwife examines Elayne and finds no problems. Elayne dislikes the regular examinations but is happy that her diet has been changed from bland food to a more regular diet. Elayne meets with the nobles in the Grand Hall of the palace. After some insults from Ellorien they request a truce so they can deal with the Borderlanders. Elayne questions the need for a truce since they are not at war and no one else has declared for the throne. They amend the request to be for a temporary agreement. Elayne informs them the Borderlanders are looking for Rand and are camped nearby due to the condition of the roads. Ellorien expresses outrage since Elayne is still not crowned as Queen, but Elayne shuts her down saying she made her decision based on being Aes Sedai, not Queen of Andor. Elayne has made an agreement with the Borderlanders and asks the nobles what they would have done differently.

Talk shifts to the Black Tower. Elayne says she can do nothing about the Black Tower, any more than she could do something if the White Tower somehow appeared in Andor. Abelle and Luan then announce their support for Elayne followed by the others except Ellorien, which gives Elayne enough support to be crowned queen. As everyone retires from the Grand Hall, Elayne wonders how long until Tarmon Gai'don?





Chapter 36. Under an Oak 






Point of view: Furyk Karede


Furyk Karede and the rest of the Deathwatch Guard travel towards the Malvide Narrows. They are looking for the camp Ajimbura has located where Tuon Athaem Kore Paendrag is held. A small party goes with Karede to meet with the leader of the camp. The party includes Hartha and a couple of Ogier Gardeners, the der'sul'dam Melitene and her damane Mylen.

Karede hears a birdcall, which is repeated ahead. He then spots a man in the tree following Karede's group with a crossbow. Karede arrives in the camp to find most men were in their blankets and that the bird-call signaled they weren't a danger. They have the look of well-trained soldiers. Karede is greeted by Talmanes Delovinde. Karede asks to see Thomdril Merrilin. Talmanes is surprised but fetches Thom, nevertheless. Karede spots Setalle Anan and Egeanin Tamarath who stares at him challengly. Amathera Aelfdene Casmir Lounault—instead of prostrating herself infront of Karede—looks at him right in the eyes which pleases Juilin Sandar. Karede wonders if Almurat Mor realized how deep the White Tower plot was.

Joline Maza, Edesina Azzedin and Teslyn Baradon approach Mylen and Joline, recognizing her, demands that she be released. Teslyn and Edesina explain she is no longer Sheraine and would betray them if given the chance, but Joline again demands she be released. Instead, Mylen shields all three of them. Matrim Cauthon arrives and demands that Mylen release the shield. Suddenly both Melitene and Mylen are shocked and Mat laughs saying that it won't work on him. Karede orders Melitene to release the Aes Sedai's shields and Mylen complies. Karede spots Tuon and Selucia. He knows that Ajimbura has slipped away to tell Musenge that Tuon's presence is confirmed. Karede addresses Thom as General, stating that he has ten thousand man not far away as well as General Chisen's army marching towards them through the Narrows. Neither will be attacked if Tuon is returned safely. Thom defers Karede to Mat, who tells Karede that he knows his force consists of only one hundred Deathwatch Guards and twenty Ogier, but as long as Karede can get Tuon to safety, he will hand her over. Mat asks Tuon if she trusts Karede and she says she trusts the Deathwatch Guards with her life and Karede more than the other Guards. She asks Karede if he still has her doll. He replies he lost it in the Great Fire of Sohima. Tuon had followed news of Karede and offers condolences for the loss of his wife and son, the latter having died heroically saving people from a burning building. Mat decides to let Tuon go with Karede. Tuon declares Mat is her husband three times, in effect completing her half of the Seanchan marriage ceremony. Mat looks shell-shocked.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon


Mat realizes that the dice stopped as soon as Tuon uttered those words. Mat asks why she did it since she doesn't appear to love him. Tuon said she may come to love him but she knew she would have to marry for the Empire. Mat tries to explain that he knew she would marry him when he stepped through the red door ter'angreal in Tear. Tuon doesn't believe Mat but talks about a Foretelling one of her damane Lidya had.



Beware the fox that makes the ravens fly for he will marry you and carry you away. Mat's ring caught her attention, a fox startling two ravens into flight is very suggestive. Mat bought the ring only because it got stuck on his finger.
Beware the man who remembers Artur Hawkwing's face, for he will marry you and set you free. Mat just fulfilled the last part now by setting her free and she tricked him earlier by asking if he remembered Hawkwing's face.
Beware the man with the red hand for you will marry him and no other. The red hand is the sigil for Mat's band.


Mat asks Tuon for another kiss and is denied. Tuon asks Mat to return to Ebou Dar to receive his honored place in the Empire. Thinking of Leilwin, Domon, the three Aes Sedai and the Band of the Red Hand, he rejects her offer. They both agree that the other is not their enemy but circumstances may change if they meet each other's opposing forces. Chel Vanin gallops into camp and gives the news of a Seanchan force tracking the Deathwatch Guard, and of a reward of a hundred thousand gold to anyone who kills Tuon. Karede asks Mat if he intends to go back on his word but Mat asks Karede to escape with Tuon. He also requests some of the Deathwatch guards to use to divert the Seanchan force away from Tuon.



Point of view: Tuon Athaem Kore Paendrag


Tuon gathers a few items including the cluster of red silk rosebuds Mat gave her. She bids farewell to Mistress Anan and leaves with Selucia. Mylen smiles broadly when Tuon approaches her. As she moves through the camp men from the Band stand and bow to her. Tuon asks Karede's opinion on Mat. Karede thinks Mat is a very good General, adaptable and not overly brave, and also in love with Tuon. Perhaps Tuon may come to love Mat since it was said that Empress Radhanan had loved Tuon's father. Tuon requests a razor, as she has removed the veil and will die as who she is. Karede salutes her and agrees.





Chapter 37. Prince of the Ravens 



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon


Mat waits on a hill and watches Aludra set up her metal-bound lofting tube. Bethamin Zeami and Seta Zarbey stand a little apart from Teslyn Baradon, Joline Maza and Edesina Azzedin. They have forbidden the two former sul'dam from joining in the upcoming battle. Captain Musenge with the rest of the Deathwatch Guard stand to the side and ignore both groups. Mat still feels shock at finally being married to Tuon Athaem Kore Paendrag. Captain Musenge approaches Mat addressing him as Highness, and asks about whether the men of the Band of the Red Hand will finish the wall before the Seanchan reaches them. Mat replies that the wall is just a decoy and that when the Seanchan army sees the unfinished wall, they will push towards Mat's army even faster. Chel Vanin with members of the Deathwatch guard and Ogier Gardeners appear out of the forest at a dead run.

The men pretending to work on the wall pick up long sling-staffs. Aludra walks along the line and begins to light each sling-staff. Musenge lines up his Deathwatch Guards at the front so the anyone looking through a looking glass can see who they are and that the Guards would be outnumbered. Vanin and the others reach Mat and all the crossbowman begin to gather their weapons. Vanin confirms that the Seanchan force is following them. The Aes Sedai explain they need to feel threatened by the enemy force before they can start channeling at them. Suddenly the Seanchan force pours out of the trees. Mat orders the banner to be unfurled and Aludra releases a nightflower into the air. Talmanes Delovinde and his men then come out behind the charging Seanchan force. Captain Mandevwin gives the order for the crossbowman to release. Thousands of bolts descend into the army below. The opposing army begins to fire back when Talmanes finally reaches the back of the enemy ranks and begins firing their arrows into them. Mandevwin orders his men to form a box with Mat at its center. The order for the sling-men to loose is given. Dark cylinders are shot into the enemy force which explode, but also release hard pebbles which pierce flesh where ever they hit.

Arrows are starting to land near Mat, one even snagging his shirt when the the Aes Sedai begin to throw huge fireballs into the enemy ranks. The enemy begins to make a wall of their own, but of the dead. Silence comes and the battle is over. The gold reward was too much and none had tried to escape. Hartha and the other Ogier walk into the mass of dead looking for the enemy forces' leader. Musenge compliments Mat telling him that crossbows won the fight and that Mat never had any more men than this addressing him as Highness again. Hartha returns with the head of Zaired Elbar. Mat asks Musenge to call him Mat. Musenge is shocked as now Mat is married to Tuon Athaem Kore Paendrag, he has become the Prince of Ravens. Mat has always disliked nobles, and now he is one. He laughs till he cries.





Chapter 38. Remember the Old Saying 



Point of view: Suroth Sabelle Meldarath


Suroth is waiting in Ebou Dar pretending to be in mourning over the death of the Seanchan Empress, while secretly awaiting word from Zaired Elbar that Tuon was dead. She is planning to announce her own ascension to the Crystal Throne and order the death of Captain-General Lunal Galgan once she had received word of Tuon’s death. In the meantime, Efraim Yamada is reporting on the attack that Turan has made against the forces of Arad Doman, and the success of Rodel Ituralde’s trap.

While Suroth berates Turan for falling into Ituralde’s trap, Galgan cuts her off and announces that her forces, the Forerunners, have been subsumed into the Return, which he commands. As Suroth begins to argue with Galgan, Deathwatch Guards enter the room escorting Tuon.

Tuon’s escort throws Elbar’s severed head on the floor and when Suroth recognizes him, she prostrates herself trying to say she will find out who Elbar was working for. Tuon announces that Elbar, who was Suroth’s man completely and he did nothing she did not order, had tried to kill her. She orders that Suroth Sabelle Meldarath is no more, and the property formerly known as Suroth will be sold on the block after its hair grows out to a respectable length.



Point of view: Pevara Tazanovni


The setting shifts to the Black Tower in Andor, where Pevara and her coterie consisting of Tarna Feir, Desala Nevanche, Melare, Javindhra Doraille and Jezrail have arrived from Tar Valon. Mazrim Taim agrees to meet with Pevara and she with her escorts are transported via gateway into Taim’s palace. Pevara lays out her plan to have Red sisters bond Asha'man as Warders. Atal Mishraile begins a rude comment to the Red sisters until he is knocked unconscious by a club of air by Taim. Melare goes to Heal him but is told that if he survives until night then he will be allowed to be Healed. Taim then agrees to their proposition. When Pevara expresses surprise at the ease with which Taim acquiesced, Taim suggests that she should simply accept his agreement and be satisfied with it. He then adds, “Besides, you must remember the old saying. Let the Lord of Chaos rule.” The Asha'man in the chamber erupt with laughter that makes Pevara’s hair stand on end.





