Chapter 0. What the Storm Means 






Point of view: Renald Fanwar

Renald is watching the strange clouds far to the north that do not bring rain. His crops are not growing at all despite the arrival of spring. Suddenly the clouds are right above him and then they were gone again. Thulin the smith comes to the farm with a laden wagon, his wife and daughter. Thulin is heading north with his family and livestock to help prepare for Tarmon Gai'don. He suggests Renald come north also since everyone will be needed. His wife Auaine agrees after he tells her what Thulin said. She suggests he gather the men and she'll start making preparations in the house.

Point of view: Falendre

Falendre is preparing for her return to Ebou Dar after the battle with Rand and the revelation that she was aiding Semirhage. She promises to inform the Daughter of the Nine Moons of Rand's desire for peace, but decides on telling Tuon when it suits her. Nynaeve wants to heal the injured damane but they are frightened of marath'damane. Nynaeve is upset with Rand that he wants to send the damane back to the Seanchan but he says he can't always do what's "right".  

Point of view: Tylee Khirgan

Tylee is returning from the battle with the Aiel two weeks ago with most of the soldiers she had but some did not survive. She admires Perrin Aybara very much but hopes she never faces him on a battlefield. Bakayar Mishima rides up and they discuss the men who have disappeared in full view of others, their travel rations have spoiled even though an inspection earlier in the day shows they were still good, and the fact the trees aren't budding as they should be. As they continue their talk Bakayar takes a Trolloc arrow through the throat. There are hundreds of Trollocs and it is only a day's march to Ebou Dar. Her belief that Trollocs are a superstition is shattered. As she charges to meet the horde, she wonders how they were able to make it inside the Seanchan defenses without being seen. 

Point of view: Graendal

Graendal is summoned from her Domani retreat to a meeting with the other Forsaken. She resents that Moridin is Nae'blis and plans to remove him and take that position, when the time is right. Moridin's orders have been for the other Forsaken and their Darkfriends contacts to kill the ta'veren Mat Cauthon and Perrin Aybara. Mesaana pleads for help in order to rescue Semirhage but Moridin states that she deserves her imprisonment. Moridin asks for status reports. Mesaana assures the others she will have subverted the entire White Tower by the time of the Last Battle. Demandred assures Moridin that his rule is secure and that his armies will be ready. After the others leave, Moridin, still insisting that Rand must survive to face him the last day, orders Graendal to make sure al'Thor does not succeed in bringing peace to Arad Doman which is the area where Graendal has the most influence. Graendal recognizes Moridin similar to Rand as he presents his nihilistic vision of the future.

Point of view: Rodel Ituralde

Ituralde and Lidrin scout the Seanchan laying as they attack the city of Darluna. Once the Seanchan get the gates open, the farmers in the fields pick up bows and weapons, while the city reveals massed soldiers inside, attacking the one hundred fifty-thousand strong Seanchan army.

Point of view: Masema Dagar

Masema reflects on when the Dragon Reborn (actually a female Forsaken) had appeared to him and told him to kill Perrin Aybara, so he used Aram for that purpose and finding out he failed and is dead, counts him as a Darkfriend. He and his remaining followers are then surprised on a ridge by Faile and her followers. The Dragonsworn are killed to a man by archers, while Faile kills Masema herself with a knife. As he dies he thinks back to his father and when he received his first blade at age fifteen.





Chapter 1. Tears from Steel 






Point of view: Omni

A wind arises around the White Tower. Tar Valon is less than pristine these days, with refuse in the streets and toughs and thieves lounging on corners. Work continues trying to remove the cuendillar chain blocking most of South Harbor under Aes Sedai guidance. The wind continues to the village of Alindaer across the river Erinin to the Rebel Aes Sedai camp. Westward the wind continues over the Black Hills and across the Caralain Grass. The land is dormant instead of springing to life with buds on the trees and new shoots from plants. When the wind reaches Arad Doman it encounters a force from the north, which halts its progress and shifts it to the south.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand, now missing his left hand, is hiding in a manor house in eastern Arad Doman. He has been jumping from place to place every few days as he tries to keep anyone from trying to rescue Semirhage. He feels as if he must be steel, but Min disagrees. Their argument is interrupted by Rand noticing that the wind is blowing in two directions at once. Eventually, one gust wins out and the tree branches go back to normal, but Rand is shaken. He seeks to get Lews Therin, the voice in his head, to explain why his attempt to seal the Dark One away from the world failed last time. He thinks again about the information he received in the twisted redstone doorframe, about binding the land together, north with east and south with west. He doesn't know if it will hold long enough to reach Tarmon Gai'don, though; and why are the Borderlanders coming south? Is Graendal really here as Asmodean said? At least the Seanchan had agreed to a truce.

Just then, Nynaeve, Cadsuane, and Alivia walk in. Rand is wearing Justice now, which he recognizes himself, not from Lews Therin. They have been interrogating Semirhage, but Rand's insistence that they neither hurt nor threaten her is hampering their efforts considerably. Nynaeve yells at him, and Cadsuane wonders if perhaps they should turn her over to the White Tower. Rand says that Egwene might not like that; he muses that she might turn her loose and force him to kneel instead. At that moment, Lews Therin rants about the women not helping him and the Hundred Companions in the Strike at Shayol Ghul. Rand is so startled by this piece of information that he demands aloud that Lews Therin tell him what he means. Too late, he realizes that everyone in the room heard him, and may think him too mad already. He stands in shock, unable to laugh or cry, while Lews Therin cackles and sobs enough for both of them.





Chapter 2. The Nature of Pain 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene receives her daily punishment from the Mistress of Novices, Silviana Brehon. After, the two women have a discussion regarding Egwene's constant resilience to the beatings, before Silviana dismisses Egwene to dinner, but tells her to return for further discipline later. Egwene reveals eating will have to wait as she is to attend Elaida over dinner. Silviana expresses surprise at this and questions Egwene as to why she did not mention this beforehand. Egwene calmly asks would it have changed anything.

Egwene leaves the chamber where she is given a dose of forkroot by Katerine Alruddin and Barasine. She has a discussion with the two about the declining situation of the Tower. While one of the Aes Sedai scoffs at the notion, the other takes to heart what Egwene has said. Unexpectedly Alviarin Freidhen doesn't show up for punishment as she usually does at this time. As Egwene heads to Elaida's apartment, she notices a mural of an ancient Amyrlin. For a moment she sees death and destruction on it, a ripple of the Dark One's work, and then it turns back to normal. As she continues, she notices Alviarin heading toward her punishment session and wonders what caused her delay.

Egwene resolves to hold her tongue while serving at Elaida's table, deciding that refusing to engage her is the best way to oppose her in this situation. She walks into Elaida's room only to be shocked by the presence of Meidani, one of her spies, being subservient to Elaida. Egwene knows she has to keep her emotions in check, but she is enraged time and time again as she is forced to hear Elaida recount how she has treated to the other sisters and hear her gloat about their reactions to the increasingly outrageous demands she has handed down. When Elaida begins discussing having Aes Sedai take a fourth oath, one of obedience to the Amyrlin, Egwene can stomach no more outrage and pours out the bowl from which she has been serving soup to the two Aes Sedai. Elaida is beside herself over the damage to her expensive rug and orders Meidani to assist Egwene in trying to clean it with towels and cold water while she hollers from the door for servants. Egwene instructs Meidani to call for her for instruction so they can discuss the current situation and after showing initial irritation, Medaini finally agrees. Egwene is then sent away with Elaida feeling confident about being in control of Egwene.

Egwene goes to the kitchens to eat before her visit with the Mistress of Novices. Once she is back with Silviana, Egwene has a revelation: the Tower did not need her help to depose Elaida, it was already heading that way. What she needed to do is to keep the Tower together. She begins to laugh as she is beaten, Silviana questions her as to why. Egwene calmly responds that it is foolish to beat her, the pain of it was insignificant to that of the pain of the Tower's situation. After the beating is over, she realizes there is a lot of work to do.





Chapter 3. The Ways of Honor 






Point of view: Aviendha

Aviendha, Rhuarc and other Aiel are in Arad Doman, observing refugees, bedazzled over how wetlanders are never aware of their surroundings. She is confident that cities are the cause of this unawareness. She wonders what honor exists for her now. Neither a Maiden of the Spear any more, nor a Wise One yet. Rhuarc is afraid that these refugees are the ghosts of the past they have been hearing about. Aviendha assures him they are not. She thinks about Rand, intent on marrying him along with Elayne as was proper according to Aiel ways, but not until she was ready according to ji'e'toh. She is mystified as to why the other Wise Ones are giving her punishments, but accepts it. The Wise Ones speculate whether the amount of refugees is due to Seanchan raids along the coast. Rhuarc took over Bandar Eban at Rand's orders, but does not like not being able to claim the fifth, and wonders if they are to act as law enforcement. Amys assigns more punishment to Aviendha for assuming to be a Wise One and going scouting.

They depart for the manor house used by the Dragon Reborn, expecting to rendezvous with the Goshien, among others. Avhienda is asked about Rand, Elayne, and Min. She is worried that Rand has not learned that strength is possible without hardness. Min's viewings of her bearing Rand's children and possible marriage to him are discussed. Aviendha is handed a sack of black, white, and brown seeds, ordered to count each one, and warned that the wrong count would repeat the punishment. She considered the punishment useless and humiliating, reserved for the honorless. She wonders what she has done. She must have done something horrific to be given this sort of penance.





Chapter 4. Nightfall 






Point of view: Gawyn Trakand

Gawyn and his Younglings scout the forces of the Rebel Aes Sedai close to Tar Valon. They are having good success in predicting their movements mostly due to Gawyn's familiarity with Gareth Bryne. Still, soldiers for Bryne are searching for the Younglings and he has to be careful to avoid getting caught. He wonders if it is his lot in life to always fight against men he has considered mentors and friends. The Younglings withdraw without engaging, being afraid they might leave enough tracks to be followed by the Salidar scouts. Gawyn ponders his own role in the conflict, thinking he still hasn't chosen sides, and will need to do so. He wishes his force could be more effective, but he can't even figure out how supplies are reaching the soldiers which would give him a worthwhile target. He is more convinced than ever that Elaida is trying to get him and his force killed.





Chapter 5. A Tale of Blood 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand is in Arad Doman, at the traveling grounds, greeting a contingent of Sea Folk coming in from Tear. They are brought by Jahar Narishma. Rand asks Harine, his Sea Folk advisor, about how they treat men who can channel. A bargain is struck, and Rand promises to answer one question truthfully in exchange for the answer to a question of his own. Harine explains that channeling men are given two choices. One is to jump off the deck of a ship carrying a rock tied to his legs. The other is being deserted on a barren island with no provisions. The first choice is considered more honorable. Rand states that this practice must change now that saidin has been cleansed, but finds the Atha'an Miere, like many others, reluctant to believe that this is the case. Rand thinks about the cruelty of killing men who can channel, and through the memories of Lews Therin, he remembers Jorlen Corbesan who was regarded as one of the world's foremost researchers and crafters of ter'angreal in the Age of Legends. Jorlen was killed during the Dark One's backlash that destroyed the Sharom. Rand discusses this with Lews Therin- audibly- disturbing Harine, who chooses to ask her question of Rand later.

A short time later, the Aiel arrive at the camp, with scouts having seen them. Rand points out that they would not have been seen had they been hostile.

Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin

Cadsuane and Merise interrogate Semirhage about Graendal's plans. She is largely uncooperative, instead lecturing her interrogators on how she once transfused a man's blood with another liquid, making him live for almost an hour in constant pain. She has no interest in quick deaths. Cadsuane recognizes herself in the Forsaken, and it terrifies her, but she reaches a conclusion that Semirhage cannot be broken with pain. Rather, she proceeds to consider how she might break herself, and resumes the interrogations.





Chapter 6. When Iron Melts 






Point of view: Rodel Ituralde

Ituralde surveys the battle scene before him, considering how it was a costly one. Half his force of 100,000 died defending the city, but they killed a force three times their number, and one with damane at that. He explains to the Seanchan General Turan how he managed to hide his forces inside the city, and some on the fields outside, fooling the general's raken scouts. Ituralde admits this is a war he cannot win. The scene ends with Ituralde taking Turan's head.

Point of view: Leane Sharif

Leane is visited by Egwene in her cell in the White Tower. Leane is amazed how far this girl has come, and how she is truly the Amyrlin. Suddenly, to the shock and dread of both women, the floor, bars, and walls start melting, forming into a liquid substance, still retaining the color of rock. Leane is about to be sucked into the abyss of wherever the stone is melting when she is rescued with flows of air by the Yellow sisters guarding her outside the room. Egwene tells Leane to stay strong.

Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene is going back to her room, and is surprised to find brown floor tiles in the hallway. Surely, the novice quarters have gray tiles? It turns out that a bubble of evil has swapped part of the quarters of the Brown Ajah with parts of the novice quarters. Egwene considers this strangely fitting due to the divisions of sisters in the Tower these days.





Chapter 7. The Plan for Arad Doman 






Point of view: Nynaeve al'Meara

Nynaeve and Daigian consider the constant overcast of the last week. Daigian is teaching the standard one hundred weaves to Nynaeve. She considers the weaves useless, far too complex for the function they serve. Nynaeve effortlessly completes each weave. Daigian, being among the weakest in the One Power Nynaeve has ever seen, will always be ranked lowest when in the company of other sisters. Nynaeve complains how these intricate social codes are wrong, letting a woman's strength in the power determine position, when Daigian has as much, or more knowledge than any other Sister. 

She sees the Aiel arriving in camp, and hurries off, to join Rand, Davram Bashere, Rhuarc, Bair, Amys, Aviendha, Bael, Cadsuane and others in the tents, discussing the plan for Bandar Eban. Rand wants to know how far the Aiel have come to establishing peace in Arad Doman. Bael pushes back, saying Rand gives them orders then follows up just weeks later demanding results. Rand is on the verge of losing his temper when Cadsuane cuts in with an admonishment and reminds him the Aiel have not failed him and won't begin. Rhuarc is ordered to capture the members Merchant's Council, who are scattered in their home cities. Rand considers this to be protection from the Forsaken as well as gathering the Council to choose a new king. Rhuarc asks about Ituralde, and how he plays into all of this. Rand is determined to deal with him personally.





Chapter 8. Clean Shirts 






Point of view: Siuan Sanche

Siuan is in the village, outside Tar Valon, discussing the current situation with Lelaine. Despite Egwene’s capture, Siuan  continues to keep the other woman from usurping Egwene's authority. Lelaine offers to be rid of Siuan's debt to Gareth Bryne but Siuan convinces her it would be best if someone keeps an eye on the general. Since she is no longer the Amyrlin she wonders if there might be room in her life for a relationship, which she always avoided in the past. Siuan later arrives at Bryne's tent and he asks her again why she broke her oath. After giving her standard response of Logain, she finally reveals to him the foretelling by Gitara Moroso about the rebirth of the Dragon Reborn, and how everyone who witnessed the event was murdered with the exception of Siuan and Moiraine. Bryne said she should have told him who she was but she explains their previous encounter and the circumstance of her current situation didn't make telling him the truth feasible. He is finally satisfied and almost releases Siuan from his service but she tells interrupts him to prevent it.

Siuan retreats, and goes to sleep, using a sleepweaver ter'angreal in order to meet with Egwene. She finds herself holding a sword in the Mistress of Novices' study. Egwene regrets meeting in the study, and asks Siuan to meet her in the Novice dining room. They decide to meet more often, when Siuan tells Egwene about one of the Forsaken being in the camp. Egwene is shocked on hearing that Halima might have been one of the Forsaken, and channeling saidin at that. She is told about the Sisters being bonded by Asha'man, and asks who permitted Rand to commit such an atrocity. Pleased with the offer to bond Asha'man, she decides they must act on the issue later, giving the benefit of the doubt to Rand. He might not have been involved in giving permission to the Asha'man. She believes the taint is gone, but is going to want more confirmation before accepting it. The political intrigue between Romanda and Lelaine is discussed, Egwene being surprised at Romanda not having pushed for more power. Rather, it has been Lelaine who has been using her support of Egwene to push for political leverage. Siuan is ordered to deal with them, as Egwene is more needed inside the tower.





Chapter 9. Leaving Malden 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Faile and the other Shaido captives have been liberated, and Perrin is relieved. He is inspecting wagons, cherishing the opportunity for manual labor. Gerard Arganda, the Ghealdan commander, wants Perrin's permission to have the Asha'man open gateways so he and his queen, Alliandre, can depart along with the Legion of the Wall. The Asha'man are too tired to Travel, so Perrin tells him they have to travel by ordinary means like the rest of the refugees. Bertain Gallenne would prefer to attack the remaining Aiel but Perrin has accomplished his objective, getting Faile and the other captives back so they are not going to continue fighting. Balwer wishes to spend more time searching for information in Malden but Perrin is anxious to get under way. Perrin sees Faile returning from scouting the area. 

Tam discusses the logistics of moving close to 100,000 refugees, all of whom are Perrin's responsibility now. He wishes only to retire and have Elayne send a proper lord for the Two Rivers so he can be done with this lord business. Tam says the men will follow him to Shayol Ghul itself, and few will take the offer to return home. Everyone can see the signs pointing to the coming of the Last Battle. Rand will need all the help he can get, and that has to be Perrin's primary focus. Aravine Carnel reports the refugees are ready after she organized them by nation and city. Perrin orders her to get the refugees moving then. In a few weeks they will be able to make Gateways to a safe location, but the Asha'man need rest first. Perrin still relishes the fighting and winning against the Aiel but also ashamed that he relishes it.





Chapter 10. The Last of the Tabac 






Point of view: Rodel Ituralde

Ituralde is reviewing maps with Rajabi for his ongoing campaign in Arad Doman. Two weeks have passed since the battle of Darluna. He wonders if it has been worth it, not having heard from King Alsalam. He is convinced the Taraboners would not come to his aid as promised. The Seanchan are massing a force of over 300,000 men and 200 damane to retake Arad Doman. They have adapted and do not only rely on raken any more. They now know Ituralde's exact force in size and composition. The Aiel Rand has brought to the country are giving him trouble, not knowing their true intentions and making him think back to the Aiel War where he had lost ten of his own men for each Aiel taken down. He remembers the time he spent in Caemlyn, reciting a story about a master bard juggling for the queen and her daughter. This is obviously Thom Merrilin, performing for Morgase and Elayne. The letter from Alsalam is given as the reason for his offensive against the Seanchan. He is disgusted by having to cut down trees in a stedding, but he has to do what is needed. The stedding is too valuable as a place where the damane can't channel in the coming engagement with the Seanchan. They decide to make their last stand.

A runner warns Ituralde of a man walking into the stedding requesting a meeting. He gathers his officers while the man, who turns out to be Rand, gets there. Rand reminds him of an Aiel, but no Aiel would dress in a coat so fine. Rand introduces himself as the Dragon Reborn, to the curses of the officers present. Ituralde is incredulous that this youth is the Dragon. He is ordered to make peace with the Seanchan. The ta'veren effect is obvious as Ituralde finds himself agreeing to the demands. The Borderlands need a general like Ituralde and then he is also offered the throne of Arad Doman. He is initially furious Rand would suggest he want to replace the king but Rand emphatically asserts that the king is in the hands of Graendal and either mad or dead by now. Rand says securing the Merchant's Council might also help to secure the nation and Ituralde agrees, to his own surprise. One hundred Asha'man are offered to Ituralde to provide him with gateways. Rand proves who he is by leaving the stedding and weaving a gateway. Ituralde wants to wipe out the Seanchan, but Rand wants peace. There is no time for conflicts with the Last Battle approaching. Rand promises to get the Seanchan out of Arad Doman, but wants help in securing the land, and Ituralde's help in the Borderlands. Ituralde agrees and shakes hands with Rand.





Chapter 11. The Death of Adrin 






Point of view: Aviendha

Aviendha is working on shifting rocks in the river outside Rand's mansion as punishment for her unknown offense. She observes the Maidens using handtalk to discuss the foolishness of Rand leaving to see Rodel Ituralde to ensure his loyalty without a Maiden escort. She is not a Maiden any longer, so she continues working, opting not to intrude on the Maidens further. Coming back to the house, she overhears a guard commenting on his fellow soldier looking sick. Before their eyes, black ooze starts boiling out of his head. The other guard believes it is channelers nearby but Aviendha realizes it is something evil. It appears a bubble of evil has manifested and is incinerating the entrance to the house with intense heat. Aviendha weaves air and water, attempting to put out the fire, but finds her weaves dissolving and wavering before having any effect. She then channels the river itself to put out the fire, helped by Naeff, an Asha'man. After the fire has been put out and Rand has cursed the Dark One, she is observed by Merise and another Aes Sedai, who expresses pity for not having Aviendha in the Tower, though they call her weaves rough. Melaine joins Aviendha, calling the comments from the Aes Sedai rubbish. Melaine is far stronger in the power than most sisters, and Aviendha far surpasses Melaine. Aviendha is puzzled at the praise. She still does not understand where her punishments come from.





Chapter 12. Unexpected Encounters 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene continues her efforts to unite the Aes Sedai. She wonders where Gawyn is, but then puts the thought aside. She is given several lessons from sisters in the application of logic. She visits the quarters of Bennae Nalsad, who asks Egwene's advice in dealing with a hypothetical problem in which a Sister is under scrutiny from one's own Ajah. Egwene quickly realizes this is due to Bennae having asked questions regarding the Thirteenth Depository. She provides an apt solution to the problem, and in the process calls Bennae Nalsad by her name without getting punished. She also meets with Nagora and Suana Dragand, who is a Sitter. Egwene addresses Suana by name and is not admonished for it. Suana even suggests that Egwene should join the Yellow Ajah once she is made Aes Sedai. When Egwene says the Amyrlin is of no Ajah, Suana simply agrees and says she is always raised from an Ajah. Egwene sees this as Suana accepting her legitimacy as an Aes Sedai and encourages Suana, as a Sitter, to try to ease tensions between the Ajahs by eating with others or just being seen together. Suana then dismisses her but, like Bennae, does not prescribe any punishment for addressing her by name.

Amazed at her success, she continues to her meeting with Meidani, and quickly wins her over. It is apparent that something is preventing Meidani from telling Egwene why she hasn't fled the Tower, being part of the Rebel faction. It appears that somehow her oaths are preventing her from speaking. Egwene then asks why Meidani has dinner with Elaida so often and she explains that she was pillow friends with her as a novice and the "others" decided to use that information to keep her near. Egwene circumvents Meidani's oath by ordering her to show her why she's remained in the Tower. She quickly teaches Traveling to Meidani after extracting a promise not to teach anyone else. Though Egwene is too weak to actually create the Gateway because of the forkroot she is forced to drink, Meidani is strong enough and re-creates the weave to take them both to the basements of the White Tower. Once there, they arrive in a room wherein Seaine, Doesine, Yukiri, and Saerin are meeting; they are shocked to see Egwene and angry with Meidani. The sisters begin speaking among themselves and admonishing Meidani, but Egwene realizes they forced her to take a fourth oath to obey them. It is soon revealed that they are hunting the Black Ajah. They are naturally reluctant to speak to Egwene, but are soon won over, at least partially, admitting that Elaida is not a legitimate Amyrlin, having been raised with the help of Black sisters. Egwene urges their help in uniting the tower, telling them the best thing they can do is merely to be seen talking to sisters of other Ajahs. Meidani admits, once they leave, that Egwene truly is the Amyrlin Seat.





Chapter 13. An Offer and a Departure 






Point of view: Gawyn Trakand

Gawyn is sparring against Sleete and Marlesh in a barn in the village of Dorlan, and defeats both of them for the third consecutive bout. The two Warders are so impressed with his skill with a sword that they say he needs to get a heron marked blade so that people will know what they're up against. Killing Hammar, after all, made Gawyn a blademaster, even if he didn't claim the blade. Sleete, a man of few words, offers Gawyn a spot as a second Warder for his Aes Sedai, Hattori. Gawyn considers the offer for a moment, but declines. Egwene will be the only one he allows to bond him. 

Upon returning to the village he notes that a meeting of some of the Aes Sedai is taking place and decides to find out what he can. He takes over guard duty on the second floor, then decides to attend the meeting as a troop commander but is refused entry. After the meeting ends he overhears Katerine Alruddin mentioning that the rebel Amyrlin, Egwene, has been captured. Katerine arrived by Traveling and has taught the Aes Sedai in Dorlan the weave so they can use it to raid the Rebels. Upon hearing that Egwene might be subject to torture, or even stilling or execution, Gawyn gathers his things and decides to leave for Gareth Bryne's camp, intent on mounting a rescue. Sleete deduces his plan but just watches him leave, and does not try to stop him.





Chapter 14. A Box Opens 






Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin

The interrogation of Semirhage continues. Cadsuane finds a kindred spirit in Sorilea, and is amazed that the Aiel Wise One manages to get a reaction from the Forsaken by noting how ordinarily human she seems. The Forsaken laughs at how these people can call themselves Aiel, having forsaken their covenant, and the Way of the Leaf. Cadsuane has only caught rumors of the Aiel past, and is curious to hear more. 

Sorilea wishes to see the male a'dam. Although Cadsuane does not wish to show it, she owes Sorilea for teaching her the weave for traveling. Cadsuane has the a'dam in a box with unique inverted weaves set to capture anyone trying to open the box. Sorilea sees it as an evil object. Cadsuane would like to experiment with it but Rand prohibits any testing on the Asha'man. Cadsuane and Sorilea both agree that Rand al'Thor needs to be guided to show more emotion, or the Last Battle will be lost.





Chapter 15. A Place to Begin 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand is dreaming. He finds himself in a place in the World of Dreams that seems strangely familiar. He must have visited this place earlier, as when Ishamael was looking for him, Mat and Perrin long ago. He finds Moridin who he recognizes now as Ishamael, sitting in front of a fireplace, wondering how Rand has managed to get there. Rand is as puzzled, having assumed that he was brought there by Moridin. Moridin attributes this to their strange connection, admitting that he does not understand its nature. Rand asks why Moridin saved him from Sammael in Shadar Logoth and Moridin says he must make it to the Last Battle. He admits not knowing what would happen if they killed each other and says that their time to fight is yet to come. He also mentions he felt Semirhage's  recent attack on Rand physically. Moridin tells him that servants of the Great Lord can be returned unless they die by balefire. They discuss the very nature of the conflict. Rand is intent on killing the Dark One for good. Moridin says that even if the forces of light win in this age, the Dark One will win eventually, and then all will end. Rand notes the saa in Moridin's eyes before leaving for the waking world.

Point of view: Min Farshaw

Min is reading the books left behind by Herid Fel, intent to find the reason that the old scholar was killed by the gholam. She wishes to speak to Aviendha about their relationship with Rand, but Aviendha is being kept too busy by the Wise Ones. She understands that clearing away the rubble must mean destroying the seals before the Bore can be resealed. She tells Rand this, promising to keep reading. Rand tells her about the voice in his head, and she wonders whether this is one or two different entities.

Point of view: Aviendha

Aviendha is continuing her chores, when sounds from the Traveling grounds alert her and Amys of the Maidens returning from meeting the Seanchan. The Seanchan have agreed to a meeting to discuss peace. Corana tells them of how the Seanchan have been leashing Shaido Wise Ones as damane. They are outraged, but will have to trust Rand's judgment on whether to sue for peace. Amys promises that once this is over, the spears will be danced with the invaders.





Chapter 16. In the White Tower 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene is visiting the White Sisters Ferane Neheran, Miyasi, and Tesan. She is asked about how she would go about controlling Rand if she were in Elaida's position. Knowing Rand, she explains his strengths and nature, and says she would not try to control him and would instead seek to understand him and send a delegation to negotiate with him. The Sisters are all impressed by her logic. Egwene also details the failings of the current leadership and of the Ajahs for failing to try to heal the rift, instead isolating themselves from the other Ajahs. She recommends they meet openly with sisters of other Ajahs and they agree it is a good first step. They offer her a place in the White Ajah if she should choose that but she replies that as Amyrlin she represents all Ajahs. 

Afterwards, she is told by Katerine Alruddin that Elaida has decided she is to have no more lessons since she refuses to curtsy to sisters. Instead she is to work for fifteen hours a day doing physical labor, and is not to have contact with other sisters. She despairs of being able to heal the Tower if she cannot contact other sisters. She begins by scrubbing the ovens in the kitchens and tries to figure out a plan. She is surprised when Laras offers to smuggle her out of the city but declines, stating she needs to heal the schism.

Later that day, she is ordered to attend Elaida, during a dinner with sisters from the Ajahs. She is determined to avoid confrontation and be silent as she was the last time she attended Elaida. She is surprised to find a Sitter from all Ajahs except the Red (and Blue) sitting at the table with Elaida. Elaida demonstrates her displeasure with the negotiations between the Tower and the Rebel Aes Sedai, but she does so using insults rather than arguments. Elaida starts questioning Egwene's knowledge of the Seanchan and orders Egwene to tell what she knows. Egwene finally relents from her silence and lambastes Elaida for all her missteps. She reveals Elaida's idea to have a fourth Oath of loyalty to the Amyrlin. She points out Elaida's particular folly of trying to lock up the Dragon Reborn, which is incompatible with him fulfilling the prophecies he must fulfill. Finally, Egwene calls Elaida a coward and a tyrant, causing Elaida to completely lose her composure. In violation of Tower law, she starts beating Egwene with the One Power. Egwene endures the punishment wordlessly, impressing the other sisters present. Finally, Elaida decides to have Egwene thrown into the deepest cell in the White Tower and proclaim in the city that Egwene is a Darkfriend.





Chapter 17. Questions of Control 






Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin

Cadsuane is eavesdropping on Sarene Nemdahl as she interrogates Semirhage and still frustrated over the lack of progress in breaking her. She considers once again how she would break herself. Semirhage knocks her noon meal, a plate of beans, onto the floor. Cadsuane realizes that she has to humiliate Semirhage to break her spirit, so she knocks her food to the floor, puts her over her knee and begins to spank Semirhage. She has the other Sisters come in to watch as well as some of the servants. Extreme threats from the Forsaken ensue but Cadsuane ignores them. She continues the humiliating spanking until Semirhage finally eats the beans off the floor. She has found a way to break her.

Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin is worried over the logistics of bringing a hundred thousand refugees home. Neald and Grady are too tired to make Gateways. It would take days to send home the people that are willing to leave and they can't hold a Gateway for more than an hour until they are rested, so they continue north by foot. Perrin ponders his bond to the wolves and remembers how close he came to killing Hopper in the Wolf Dream. He wonders if his fate will be the same as a Wolf brother he freed long ago that had lost all of his humanity. He decides it is time to return to the Wolf Dream and stop evading his responsibilities.





Chapter 18. A Message in Haste 






Point of view: Siuan Sanche

Siuan walks into the Rebel Aes Sedai camp with her laundry only to find that there is a meeting of the Salidar Hall. She wonders what is amiss, as nothing except the extraordinary can gather this many Sisters and other watchers. The last time it happened was the announcement that saidin had been cleansed and Sisters had bonded Asha'man. Sheriam reveals that Elaida's Sisters have the ability to Travel now. There are shocked reactions to this as the sisters wonder how it has happened. Siuan figures it must have been Beonin who gave away the secret. She prays that they can keep the weave away from the Seanchan. She proceeds to warn Gareth Bryne about the need to watch his flanks. 

Sharina Melloy, an aged novice, approaches Siuan. She offers to carry her washing. She notes the oddity of the meeting of the Sitters, saying it is strange that such an event originates merely from learning that the White Tower could Travel. Sharina reveals that Lelaine is the one to have allowed the news to be learned by all on purpose, in order to promote her own political goals. Siuan is worried about Lelaine making a grab for power. The over-aged novices are afraid anyone but Egwene will take the position as Amyrlin, since they would certainly be sent home, not being raised to the shawl. Much is at stake in having Egwene resume control.





Chapter 19. Gambits 






Point of view: Tuon Athaem Kore Paendrag

Tuon is overseeing her forces in Ebou Dar. She considers how this is but one little part of the world, with the Seanchan continent in shambles and civil war. The world is in chaos and Suroth's betrayal shocks her. That the leader of the Corenne itself could be a traitor, is incredible. Tuon is taking audiences from her retainers and other Seanchan nobles. Captain-General Lunal Galgan is the highest among them. She announces Selucia as her Truthspeaker, and orders it to be known throughout the Empire. King Beslan Mitsobar of Altara is admitted into the room, and is given a choice. He must either swear as a loyal subject to the Seanchan empire, or face execution. He swears the oaths, is raised to the High Blood, and is promised rule over his people, unhindered by the empire. Altara will be the permanent seat of the Empire in the westlands. He asks if Tuon is ta'veren, as he certainly didn't expect to swear allegiance to her when he came in.

Galgan shows Tuon the Dragon Banner, and Rand's request for a meeting. Tuon is convinced the Seanchan is needed on this side of the Ocean, stating the need for the Dragon to bow before the Crystal Throne. It is no coincidence that the return happened now of all times. Galgan and Lieutenant-General Yulan continue, informing Tuon of one of their more ambitious plans, an attack on the White Tower. They are determined to capture marath'damane in order to learn Traveling. Raken and to'raken will be used to stage an aerial assault on Tar Valon. Several hundred channelers is too tempting a prize to pass up, despite the limitations the Three Oaths provide. Between eighty and one hundred to'raken will be used to carry around two hundred men and fifty sul'dam with damane to Tar Valon. Some Bloodknives will be included since the Bloodknives will not return, being left behind to murder marath'damane. Before Tuon approves the raid, General Tylee Khirgan enters, and is allowed to speak. She gives the story of how her forces were attacked by Trollocs, and Trolloc heads are shown to the court. Khirgan was attacked not ten miles from Ebou Dar. Tuon finally realizes Shadowspawn are more than superstition after all and that Matrim told her the truth. Tuon is told about the battle against the Shaido, and the joint campaign with Perrin's forces. Khirgan states that the people on this side of the ocean might be better allies than subjects. It is a bold statement. Tuon agrees to the meeting with Rand and approves the raid on Tar Valon.





Chapter 20. On a Broken Road 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

Mat Cauthon complains to Talmanes Delovinde about how women are hard to understand. They are traveling northeast of the Damona Mountain range in Murandy with seven thousand mounted soldiers of the Band of the Red Hand. They are also two hundred leagues from Caemlyn. Mat intends to go to Caemlyn first to meet up with Estean Andiama and Daerid Ondin for news and provisions before accompanying Thom Merrilin to the Tower of Ghenjei.

Mat had entrusted Chel Vanin to get them out of Murandy. Vanin consults a map made by cartographer Master Roidelle. Vanin points out Blinder's Peak, but thinks it could very well be Mount Sardlen. Vanin thinks that if it is Mount Sardlen, then they are near a village called Hinderstap, an hour or so away. After rechecking the map, he thinks it could be Favlend Mountain, instead. Vanin leaves the party to scout ahead.

Talmanes tells Mat not to worry about the thousand soldiers who perished in their recent battle against the Seanchan. However, Talmanes clues in that Mat is not on edge about the soldiers.

Mat tries not to keep in mind the fact that he is now a Seanchan prince. Instead, he tries to focus on feeding the troops. Mat also worries about Tuon. Mat takes offense when Talmanes jokes about Mat worrying about her like a husband. Mat wonders if there is a connection between not seeing the sun in as long as he has not seen Tuon. He also wishes Tuon had not completed the wedding ceremony in public, because he did not want people to find out. He declares that just because he got married, it doesn't mean that he will stop his gambling or drinking. Mat does not want to be seen as soft because he got married. Talmanes reminds him that some of the Great Captains such as Davram Bashere and Rodel Ituralde are married.

Mat overhears Olver recounting to Noal Charin another theory as to how to enter the Tower of Ghenjei.

Vanin returns and confirms that not only is the nearby hill Mount Sarden, but that Master Roidelle is an excellent mapmaker. Vanin also says that Hinderstap should be up ahead. Upon hearing news about a village coming up, Joline Sedai comes riding up with Edesina Sedai and Teslyn Sedai. Vanin tells Joline that he could get to Caemlyn by himself in a little over a week and that it would take the entire Band twenty days or longer.

Sensing that Joline would want them to travel separately without the Band, Mat opposes that idea. Instead he suggests that she and the other Aes Sedai travel on their own. Joline asks Mat for twenty horses: two each for herself, Edesina, Teslyn, Setalle Anan, and the two former sul'dam, and eight to carry their belongings. She also requests feed for the horses, money for lodging, and some soldiers. Mat denies the request and offers one horse each, and one horse for belongings. Joline declines the offer.

Mat orders Vanin to inform Mandevwin that the Band will be making camp soon, but only a few are going into the village. Talmanes said that it was unlike Mat not to take up an offer to be rid of Aes Sedai. Talmanes thinks it was a deal to part with twenty horses and Aes Sedai. Talmanes notices Mat is still edgy and assures him that Tuon is in good hands.

When told by Talmanes that the Band was low on food as well as low on tabac, Mat thinks that the gold King Roedran had given them should be enough to buy food to feed all of them. Talmanes reminds Mat that many villages they have encountered have been unwilling to part with a dwindling food supply. Mat decides he needs to relax and urges Talmanes to go drinking and gambling with him in Hinderstap. Mat knows that Egwene al'Vere or Nynaeve al'Meara would disapprove of his plan to resupply for free using his gambling luck.





Chapter 21. Embers and Ash 






Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin Aybara finds himself in the Wolf Dream, suspended in mid-air. Hopper whizzes by him, encouraging him to jump down, where it is safe. After Perrin lands on the ground, Hopper offers to run with him. Perrin initially runs as a human, out of fear of losing control of himself as a wolf while in Tel'aran'rhiod. Hopper insists that Perrin run and hunt with him, but Perrin is adamant about maintaining control. Angry, Hopper refuses to teach Perrin how to move while in the Wolf Dream. A rebuffed Perrin decides to look for other wolves to teach him. Hopper rebukes Perrin for inadvertently appearing too strongly in the Wolf Dream and slams into Perrin to throw him out of of Tel'aran'rhiod.

Point of view: Faile Bashere

Faile Bashere is awake in bed, hoping that Perrin would sleep soon. As he is tossing and turning, he suddenly denies he slept with Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron. After assuring Perrin that she believes him, she contemplates her recent time in captivity under Sevanna in Malden. Faile believes that during her captivity she finally realized what it means to be a noblewoman – to be responsible for the well-being of the people pledged to her.

Perrin then tries to forgive Faile in case she had to be unfaithful in dissimilar circumstances with her male captor in Malden, but she is affronted that he would think she would even consider that notion. She reflects on the Aiel in Malden who were not Shaido, particularly the Brotherless. She decides not to let Perrin know that the man he killed was actually her protector. After wondering aloud about the whereabouts of Masema Dagar, Perrin finally snores.

Faile leaves the tent and walks with Arrela Shiego and Lacile Aldorwin to two waiting Maidens, who escort them outside of camp, where they meet up with Bain and Chiad. Bain and Chiad banter to each other about Gaul’s bravery in their rescue. Before leaving her, they pass a bundle to Faile and remind her that Alliandre Maritha Kigarin awaits them by the trees. Faile thinks that Bain and Chiad also sent an additional Maiden to join the other two that were already guarding them.

Faile has a bundle with her, which she opens at Alliandre’s urging. In addition to a flask of oil, the bundle contains a leather belt, a black veil, a yellow silk handkerchief, and a leather band with a blue stone. Each item belonged to an Aiel who protected each woman, but who died during their rescue by Perrin’s people. Kinhuin was Alliandre’s protector and owned the belt. Arrela’s protector was Marthea, who owned the black veil. The yellow handkerchief belonged to Jhoradin, who was not only Lacile’s protector, but her lover. The leather band was Rolan’s, the Brotherless who looked after Faile.

Faile remembers how tragic the night of their rescue had been. Perrin killed Rolan, not knowing that Rolan was Faile’s protector. Lacile killed Jhoradin during a moment when Jhoradin was trying to guard her. And Faile stabbed Kinhuin in the back when he was running towards a fallen Rolan.

Each woman in turn douses each object with oil before setting it upon a pyre Faile had set up. They say a few kind words about their respective Aiel. Lacile mentions that a Brotherless named Niagen is in Perrin's camp, as gai'shain to the Maiden Sulin. She went to tell him of what his former clan members should be remembered for. The four women return to camp once the fire burns out. Faile keeps the blue stone in remembrance of Rolan.

Point of view: Perrin Aybara

Perrin has woken up in the tent and notices that Faile is not there. He ponders his recent stay in Ter'aran'rhiod. Perrin concludes that he has three decisions to make. The first is figuring out whether to extricate himself from the people who want him to lead them, or be resigned to being their leader. The second is to start making decisions instead of avoiding them. Finally, the last and hardest decision was whether to allow Faile to be in harm's way again.

Accepting that he has problems to contend with gives him a sense of peace that allows him to go back to sleep.





Chapter 22. The Last That Could Be Done 






Point of view: Semirhage

As an expert in torture, Semirhage considers torture an art form as well as a scientific pursuit. She was psychologically ready to accept the pain that the Aes Sedai would inflict on her while in captivity. She was instead humiliated when the woman in the paralis-net, Cadsuane Melaidhrin, placed her across her knees, and spanked her on her bottom. Semirhage does not understand how these childlike Aes Sedai women suddenly transformed from being frightened by a Forsaken in their midst to regarding her like a child. She is furious that they are not treating her with the respect she feels entitled to.

Alone in her dark room, Semirhage is plotting the torture she would administer to Cadsuane, when Shaidar Haran suddenly appears. After listing all of her failures, Shaidar Haran tells her that the Dark One is giving her one more chance. She feels the return of saidar as her shield is broken. As she walks outside of her cell, she sees the bodies of the three Aes Sedai who were maintaining her shield on the ground. An additional Aes Sedai, Elza Penfell, is prostrating herself before her, revealing herself to be Black Ajah. She relays orders to Semirhage that the Compulsion placed on her was to be removed. In addition, she proffers Semirhage the Domination Band.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand is in Saldaea with Rodel Ituralde and Davram Bashere after moving fifty thousand Domani troops to help defend the Borderlands. Bashere suggested they ride up to view the blight, which is advancing from the north very quickly. He is leaving Ituralde in Saldaea to insure his loyalty since he has no base of support there. Bashere will help Rand in Arad Doman since the Saldaean populace might question Bashere on why he became Dragonsworn. Rand promises Ituralde one hundred Asha'man within the week and lets Bashere know they will be moving to Bandar Eban in four days. As he is riding, Lews Therin suddenly confirms that the Seven Seals must be broken before another seal can be put on the Dark One's prison. Rand tries to get more information on what needs to be done but is not successful.

Rand returns to Lord Tellaen's manor house dissatisfied that Lews Therin does not know or won't tell him how to seal the Dark One away forever. Rand enters his room to find Min reading another of Herid Fel's books while a serving woman tends his room. Rand becomes upset because Min has been taking advice from Cadsuane on what to tell him. Min's eyes widen with shock as something clicks, encircling Rand's neck. The serving woman's image shimmers and becomes Semirhage, with the male a'dam around Rand's neck. Semirhage barely deflects a knife thrown by Min. Min then begins to yell for help from the guards or the Maidens. Elza Penfell enters and takes over the second bracelet of the Domination Band. Rand is unable to move as Min is silenced and tossed off of the bed.

Semirhage begins to use the a'dam to show Rand how much control over him he has and how little he can do that she doesn't allow. Semirhage revels in the pain caused when Rand tries to channel saidin. Then Rand gains control over himself despite the pain that Semirhage continues to inflict on him stating that no more can be done to him. Semirhage forces him to channel saidin to cause pain to Min. Semirhage plans to leave the room, deal with the Aes Sedai that kept her prisoner and then travel to Shayol Ghul for Rand to submit to the Great Lord. Before leaving she is going to have Rand choke Min to death. Rand desperately searches for a way out and suddenly becomes aware of a strange force which he reaches for with his mind, through his connection to Moridin. Lews Therin recognizes it as the True Power and tells Rand not to use it since it is the Dark One's power. He channels the power into the Domination Band's destruction, then releases his grip on Min's throat. He channels balefire and destroys Semirhage, then Elza. He releases the True Power even though it is much more addictive than saidin. 

Rand feels that the last that could be done to him has been done. He no longer has laughter or flexibility. Now he will become harder than steel. He could not longer be broken or even bent.





Chapter 23. A Warp in the Air 






Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin

Daigian Moseneillin is dead and Corele Hovian and Nesune Bihara injured after Semirhage escaped. Rand killed Semirhage after she tried to control him and now Cadsuane is trying to sort out what happened. Cadsuane demands that Rand tell her what happen but he only replies that the danger has been dealt with. He then shows Jahar Narishma the weave for balefire, destroying his coat in the process with instructions to use it on any Forsaken he encounters since that is the only way to keep them from returning. Cadsuane berates Rand for using the forbidden weave, but he doesn't care. Rand shows her the remnants of the Domination Band which she thought was impossible to retrieve from where she had it hidden. She wonders what has happened to the Access key that was also in the box. Rand then exiles Cadsuane from his sight, promising to kill her the next time he sees her face. She notes a darkness emanating from Rand and now she has no way to aid him from turning to darkness.





Chapter 24. A New Commitment 






Point of view: Gawyn Trakand

Gawyn Trakand arrives at the camp of rebel Aes Sedai camp, exhausted from sleeping only a couple of hours a night the last two nights. He spots Gareth Bryne's command post and heads that way. As he moves through the camp he encounters a woman with an Aes Sedai face who runs away from him. The guards at the gate believe he is a recruit and try to direct him away. Gawyn announces his name and demands to be shown to Bryne but is refused. Gawyn decides to force his way in and fights the guards, knocking out one and wounding two others. When bowmen arrive Gawyn tosses down his sword and again demands to see Bryne. Bryne arrives and sizes up the situation and dresses down the guard sergeant for not sending for him. He expects courtesy and respect from Bryne but doesn't get it after his actions. Gawyn continues to be demanding and Bryne doesn't put up with it. Gawyn finally admits to being a fool and they become more cordial with each other.

Gawyn explains he wishes aid in rescuing Egwene from the White Tower. Bryne tells him that even if he came up with a way to get to her she wouldn't leave. All Bryne can do is promise to introduce Gawyn to some of the Aes Sedai that are communicating with Egwene. Gawyn mentions the Aes Sedai he say in the camp so Bryne asks Gawyn to show him. Bryne lets him know that Elayne now has the Lion Throne and is fixing up the mess left by Morgase. Gawyn doesn't believe Bryne about the actions Morgase was taking when Gaebril was in Caemlyn. Gawyn blames Rand for his mother's death. Bryne tries to convince him otherwise but Gawyn will not be swayed from his belief. 

They spot the Aes Sedai and approach her. The Aes Sedai is Shemerin who was demoted to Accepted by Elaida. She fled the White Tower is now working as a wash woman. Bryne takes Gawyn and Shemerin to the Rebel Aes Sedai camp.





Chapter 25. In Darkness 






Point of view: Sheriam Bayanar

Sheriam returns to her tent, checking to make sure no one is waiting for her before entering. She is grateful that Halima was forced to leave since she no longer has to suffer beatings from her. She senses a very powerful woman outside her tent, then the woman enters clothed all in black. The Chosen demands that Egwene be deposed. She is asked how so many isters are able to meet with Egwene in Tel'aran'rhiod, which is by using ter'angreal. The Chosen demands the nineteen Sleepweavers be collected and turned over to her with the loss of a finger or toe at stake for each one missing. The Chosen then leaves by Gateway into the White Tower.

Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene is kept shielded and locked in a lightless cell, still wearing the bloody dress she wore to Elaida's dinner. Even though Elaida ordered no visitors, that is against Tower Law so some sisters come to see her. Right now Seaine Herimon is in her  cell. Elaida is going to be brought to trial for beating Egwene with the Power which was witnessed by five sisters from five Ajahs. The penalty Elaida would face would not be severe though. Rooms in the tower are still randomly being switched around, food is spoiling and some servants have died, all signaling the Dark One's touch on the world. Egwene encourages Seaine to keep reminding the Aes Sedai that the Dark One stirs and the Last Battle approaches and to keep their attention on working together. 





Chapter 26. A Crack in the Stone 






Point of view: Aviendha

Min talks to Aviendha to get to know her better while Aviendha has to fill a water bucket drop by drop as a punishment. They discuss Rand who has grown more distrustful of others than he was, even Min. During the conversation Min challenges Aviendha's submission to her treatment. Aviendha is so riled afterwards that she confronts the Wise Ones Amys, Bair and Melaine on why she has to do useless punishments. She angrily tells them she has done all they have asked and she is done with punishments unless they tell her what they wish of her. They ask her if she presumes to be their equal and she affirms that she does. The Wise Ones declare Aviendha to be accepted to act as a Wise One from then on and send her to Rhuidean to complete her training. She will start from Cold Rocks Hold and then walk or run to the city. At the city she is to enter the glass columns to learn of her history and that of the Aiel. She travels to Cold Rocks Hold by Gateway.

Point of view: Romanda Cassin

Romanda is interviewing Shemerin on how she came to be in the Rebel Aes Sedai camp. Lelaine Akashi and Siuan Sanche are present along with some other Sisters. The Sisters try to convince Shemerin that she can't be demoted from being Aes Sedai but she seems to have accepted her new station and won't be convinced. A small bubble of evil erupts in Romanda's tent, spewing forth a great many cockroaches. After leaving the tent they decide to burn it to destroy the insects. Siuan takes Shemerin so that the former can get a map of where a water gate is that the latter used to escape.





Chapter 27. The Tipsy Gelding 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

Mat, Talmanes, Thom Merrilin and a few of the band go into town to resupply. They have to take the Aes Sedai with them, which does not please them much. Once the mayor informs them they need to be gone by sunset, they refuse to believe it. Thom is still re-reading his letter from Moiraine, to remind Mat they need to rescue her. Mat plans to help but the Band has to be somewhere safe and they need supplies and information before entering the Tower of Ghenjei.

They enter the town and Mat notices many of the villagers have clothes that have been mended often. The Mayor, Barlden, meets them at the town entrance and tells them they must leave by sunset. The Aes Sedai argue that the rules should not apply to them. Mat silently curses as the dice start rattling in his head again. Mat locates a local tavern called the Tipsy Gelding and brings in several pouches filled with coins.

Mat begins betting his gold against the patrons silver and loses, then loses more and then more again. Finally the Mayor enters and Mat makes sure he sees more gold coins lost. Mat then has his soldiers bring in his chest of gold and talks the Mayor into betting food to supply the Band. While they gather the supplies, the sun is setting quick. The Mayor is afraid of being cheated and wants to throw the dice himself and use the dice Mat has been losing with. As the sun sets Mat decides he will stay and the dice stop. An errand boy reports to the Mayor that the Aes Sedai are still bathing despite the late hour. Mat believes the coin he lost earlier covers the cost of the food he expects to win. The mayor throws a winning throw for Mat. The villagers all enter the inn, leaving the streets eerily quiet. At that moment the sun sets and screaming begins.





Chapter 28. Night in Hinderstap 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

Some residents attack Mat and the Redarms while others turn on their fellows. They are unarmed and mostly just use their hands. They finally have to abandon the chest of gold and the cart of provisions to escape the mob. Talmanes is upset with Mat because they have to kill the residents of Hinderstap because they didn't leave before dark. They set off to find Thom and the Aes Sedai. Delarn is dismounted and Mat turns back to rescue him. Thom appears and helps Mat so they can head toward the Aes Sedai. When they near the inn they see the Aes Sedai channeling fireballs.

Inside the inn Mat is almost roasted by the Aes Sedai before they recognize him. Mat has to convince Joline that leaving is the best thing to do but she insists on bringing two serving girls that are tied up. Edesina heals Delarn while everyone gets mounted up to leave. The group waits on a hillside above the town hoping that dawn will clarify what was happening. Thom has a drawing he took from a drunk which is an image of Mat. The drunk got it from a woman in another village who is offering a reward for Mat's whereabouts. Suddenly Fen Mizar grunts when the serving women he was guarding suddenly disappeared.

Mat and Thom return to the town and notice lights coming on in some of the buildings and some shepherds out in the fields. When they reach town they are not attacked and some of the men that were dead are alive again. At one of the battle sites the bodies are gone, even the blood is gone. Barlden the mayor explains to Mat that this has happened every night for months only they don't remember what happens. They just see the effects when they wake up in the morning. The mayor doesn't want help from the Aes Sedai but just to be left alone. Barlden tells Mat the pictures come from the town of Trustair. Another picture shows a burly man with a beard and notes he has golden eyes. Thom figures there is a snag in the Pattern which then resets each morning. Thom drives the wagon and the group returns to the Band with the next destination, Trustair.





Chapter 29. Into Bandar Eban 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand rides through a Gateway into Bandar Eban while reciting the list of the women who died for him, starting with Moiraine. A large contingent of Aiel come with him along with the Aes Sedai. Dobraine Taborwin meets him with word that one of the merchant council, Milisair Chadmar has been apprehended. There are Sea Folk rakers in the harbor that were tasked with bringing grain to the city to mitigate the starvation that had set in. He has the Access key ter'angreal with him now and isn't sure if Cadsuane knows that or not. Since she is forbidden to show her face to Rand, he really doesn't care if she knows or not. Merise rides near him and complains about his exile of Cadsuane but he just looks at her rather than replying, giving her no leverage  to continue her arguments.

Rand wonders where Aviendha went but through the bond he knows she is very far away to the east, probably in the Waste. He meets Rhuarc inside the mansion belonging to Milisair and grants the Aiel the right to the fifth, but only from the rich district of the city. He orders Dobraine to go to Tear and encourage Darlin Sisnera to continue to gather forces even though they are not going to be brought to Bandar Eban yet. He has Milisair brought to his new audience chamber and asks when she last had contact with the missing King Alsalam Saeed Almadar. Rand asks to speak with the messenger that brought her word from the king and finds she has put him to the question and locked him away. He orders the messenger brought to him and dismisses her. He starts to work with the Aiel on grain distribution plans while hoping he can find a clue to where Graendal is.





Chapter 30. Old Advice 






Point of view: Gawyn Trakand

Gawyn is petitioning the Aes Sedai to rescue Egwene from the White Tower despite the Amyrlin's orders to do no such thing. He doesn't understand how the Aes Sedai communicate with Egwene and they won't tell him. Lelaine sort of promises to bring the petition to the Hall of the Tower, some time, if she can find a new argument that might work. Lelaine then questions Gawyn on policies that Elayne might implement now that she is the queen of Andor. Gawyn leaves extremely dissatisfied due to his lack of progress.

He rides out of the camp to meet with Gareth Bryne which they arranged to do before his meeting with Lelaine. Bryne tries to question him about the Younglings but Gawyn refuses to divulge any information that would be a betrayal of his former command. Gawyn plans to rescue Egwene and take her to Andor. Bryne questions how he will succeed if she won't go and what kind of a man is he if he would use force.





Chapter 31. A Promise to Lews Therin 






Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin

Cadsuane refuses to go into exile. Instead, she takes Rand's words literally:  he said he will execute her if he "sees her face," so she hides her face in a cloak and continues to try to help him any way she can.  She stops at an inn where a well informed inn-keeper runs a high-end restaurant. Quillin Tasil has no reliable information on where Alsalam Saeed Almadar is and he hasn't been seen for six months or so. He also reports strange occurrences in the city, all of them negative, related to Rand's arrival, Cadsuane asks if their are balanced by positive ones, and starts to worry that Rand's ta'veren influence is becoming more destructive.

She then heads to the docks to check on the rumors about food spoilage. As she looks around she finds that Rand has also just arrived at the docks. She if very frustrated that she is no longer in a position to guide Rand and he is badly in need of guidance. She admits some mistakes in communication with Rand, but refuses responsibility for the theft of Domination Band and thinks that it should mask the main purpose: to give Choedan Kal to Rand's hands to tempt him. She suddenly has an idea of something that might help so she leaves the docks to see if it something she can do.

She meets with Sorilea and admits that she has failed. Cadsuane explains her plan to the Wise Ones and asks for their help.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand notices Cadsuane leaving the docks but leaves her alone. Naeff is reporting on the negotiations to set up a meeting between Rand and the Seanchan Daughter of the Nine Moons. They haven't been able to agree on a location for the meeting yet. Rand recommends Falme for the meeting which he believes they will accept. He discusses the Seanchan with Nynaeve, one of the few people he still trusts. Rand asks after Lan and finds out he will need two or three months to reach Shienar before he will be able to move toward Malkier. Rand considers plans that would use Lan as a distraction for his own goals but unwisely mentions them aloud to Nynaeve.

Back at his mansion Rhuarc reports they now have four members of the Council of Merchants in custody. He still needs four more members for them to vote on a new king. Milisair Chadmar then reports that the messenger from the King she had imprisoned is dead. Rand orders her imprisoned in the same place as the messenger as punishment for her failure. Nynaeve asks if he knows where Mat and Perrin are at. Colors swirl and resolve into images of his friends with Perrin currently meeting with Galad while Mat is riding a horse through Caemlyn. He grows angry with Nynaeve and stalks off thinking he only needs to keep himself together a little longer. Lews Therin reminds Rand of his promise that they will die and Rand confirms they will.





Chapter 32. Rivers of Shadow 






Point of view: Nynaeve al'Meara

Nynaeve stands on the wall of Bandar Eban, waiting with Merise, Corele, and Cadsuane to see the infamous ghost procession that has circled the city every night since Rand arrived. After the procession appears, she heads off into the city. On her way she hears a child cough several times, and goes to find him. After healing the child, she chastises the parents for not coming to the Aes Sedai. Upon arriving at the mansion, she takes a few of the soldiers not on duty, and sends for the dosun. She questions the dosun, Loral, on where the messenger from the King was sent, and has her lead herself and the soldiers to the place. Inside the shop the dosun leads her too, they capture several men, one of whom confesses the location of the trapdoor that leads to the dungeon. They enter the dungeon, and in the second cell find Milisair Chadmar. Nynaeve heals her of the poison she finds while delving her, and proceeds to question the jailers about how the messenger died. She believes the jailers claims that he died naturally, and continues on to ask who prepared the prisoners food. She finds out that is was an apprentice named Kerb, and rushes out into the street, only to find him held down by the men she had brought from the mansion.





Chapter 33. A Conversation with the Dragon 






Point of view: Nynaeve al'Meara

Rand enters the sitting room after Nynaeve had sent the maidens to wake him. He asks who Kerb is, and Nynaeve explains her suspicion that he poisoned the messenger and that he had poisoned Milisair Chadmar. She also mentions that she felt a block of some sort in his mind when she delved him. Rand suspects that it is Compulsion, and after questioning Kerb, he confirms. He gives Nynaeve basic instructions on how to remove it, and almost an hour later, she finishes. Kerb seems to go blank, and Rand demands he tell him where Graendal is, and Kerb manages to whisper "Natrin's Barrow" before dying. Nynaeve is very upset by this, and argues about the consequences of fighting this way. Rand's argument is that this is the only way he can win. He likens his labor to climbing Dragonmount - it can be done but without descent as whole climber's strength is spent to reach the summit. He is fully aware of this but he thinks this is the only way to win. He appreciates her care of him and trusts her but thinks he knows better what he must do. Nynaeve is left unable to find the words to argue, and Rand carries Min to their bedroom.





Chapter 34. Legends 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon

Mat studies the maps of the area around Trustair, and plans a rescue in case of an emergency. Thom is to have several soldiers as 'apprentices' during the trip into the town, and Mat helps them fabricate overly elaborate stories. They soon head out into the camp and Mat goes to check on Aludra. Egeanin and Bayle are with her,  with Bayle acting as Egeanin's bodyguard. He asks after the dragons, and they discuss the supply requirements. The numbers are staggering, and Mat himself couldn't afford them, though he hopes that Rand will be able to help him. After some debating, Olver arrives, saying that someone is in the camp, and that Mat needs to come with him. After a few questions, Mat follows Olver and discovers that the newcomers are Verin and her warder, Tomas. Mat surmises that she has the knowledge of Traveling, and she admits that she does. They head off to discuss the terms of transporting them to Andor.





Chapter 35. A Halo of Blackness 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand arrives in Falme for his meeting with the Daughter of the Nine Moons, Tuon. He is accompanied by Nynaeve, Corele, Narishma, Flinn, three Wise Ones, and unspecified others. Rand reminisces about the Battle of Falme, and notes that Rand the sheepherder had died at Falme, and Rand the Dragon Reborn had risen from his ashes. He and Nynaeve discuss his battle with High Lord Turak, something Rand realizes he had never spoken of with anyone. Tuon awaits their meeting on a pavilion, surrounded by hundreds of damane and sul'dam. Rand preemptively seizes saidin through the Choeden Kal access key as a precaution against an attack or an attempt to shield him. He then sees Tuon for the first time, noting how young she is.

Point of view: Tuon Athaem Kore Paendrag

Tuon notes that Rand does not look as old as she had thought. Tuon thinks of how she has still not declared herself Empress, as this would require that she be seated above the Dragon Reborn. The Seanchan are visibly uncomfortable at the presence of unleashed channelers. Tuon notices in the sky a flash of lightning between two clouds, an omen meaning "Tread very lightly and be careful what you speak."

Rand immediately demands that a peace be declared, so that the forces of humanity can fight united against the Shadow instead of among themselves. Tuon thinks of the Seanchan's own prophecies, which state that humanity must be united under the Seanchan before fighting the Shadow, and that the Empress herself will send the Dragon to fight the Dark One.  Tuon tells Rand that The Return intended to find the Westlands united, and surrender to the Seanchan for the Last Battle; instead, they found a fractured land, squabbling like children. Rand rebuts that he has united much of the land, and that an alliance need only last as long as he is alive, which he assures Tuon will not be for long. Tuon then suggests that if Rand sees the value of a united humanity, he should also be amenable to his people taking oaths to the Seanchan and seeing their channelers leashed. Rand then grows forceful, saying he will not see another channeler leashed.

Tuon then turns the discussion to Mat, and Rand and Nynaeve are shocked that Tuon knows of Mat. Rand then realized that it was Tuon he had been seeing in the color swirls. Tuon insults Mat, and Nynaeve rebukes her, saying that Mat is a brave and selfless hero, albeit a bit of a carouser; Rand defends him as well.

Rand begins the discussion of a treaty again, demanding it of Tuon. Tuon finds it harder and harder to resist Rand, and observes the chapter's titular "Halo of Darkness" around Rand, and the reader is left to assume he is attempting to exert his ta'veren effect. Tuon manages to resist, and Rand storms off. Tuon, in this moment, decides that she cannot allow Rand, a madman, to grow anymore powerful. She orders the strike on Tar Valon to proceed, and then plans to attack Rand himself.





Chapter 36. The Death of Tuon 






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon


The first part of the chapter is a meeting between Mat and Verin, with other members of the Band present. Verin first relates how she came to find Mat despite her intentions of Traveling to Tar Valon. The journey involves her being pulled strongly by the ta'veren nature of Mat in such a way as to prevent her Traveling directly to Tar Valon. Instead, she ends up meeting Mat near Trustair, although she was unsure prior to meeting Mat whether the t'averen she would be meeting would be him or Perrin.

Verin then offers a deal to take the Band directly to Caemlyn. Before telling Mat the details, she tells him that she received the picture of Mat from a Darkfriend and recommends that he be careful. The cost of the deal is that Verin will take the Band to Caemlyn on the condition that Mat agrees to open a sealed letter of instructions ten days after arriving. They end up compromising that Mat will either open the letter after ten days or that he will burn the letter unopened after remaining in Caemlyn for thirty days. Verin does, however, state that she hopes to relieve him of the letter before the ten days are up. Before ordering the camp to break, Mat notices that Verin has a stack of sealed letters inside her satchel.



Point of view: Fortuona Paendrag


Fortuona Paendrag, now the Empress of Seanchan, is thinking about her former name—Tuon—and how it will be a notation in history. She is seeing the soldiers going on the Raid on Tar Valon off. The raid consists of 200 members of the Fists of Heaven, fifty pairs of sul'dam and damane, and five members of the Bloodknives. The raid will reach Tar Valon using hundreds of to'raken and a flock of raken. Due to rediscovery of Traveling, the raid is leaving after sunset and away from Ebou Dar in order to remain a secret. The raid involves innovative tactics of launching the attack from the to'raken instead of from a staging point, which Fortuona thinks could be a bold new tactic or a disaster. Fortuona, in a conversation with Selucia, says that, as a consequence of the raid, the Dragon Reborn will certainly be against them. Until now, he wasn't, just Seanchan were against him.  And this will make a big difference.





Chapter 37. A Force of Light 






Point of view: Min Farshaw


Rand al'Thor prepares to confront Graendal and sends for Lord Ramshalan and Nynaeve to accompany him. He asks Ramshalan how he would deal with an enemy who is smarter than himself. After Ramshalan suggests allying with such an enemy, Rand weaves a Gateway to Natrin's Barrow and sends Ramshalan through to offer Graendal an alliance and return with her answer as quick as possible. He sends the Maidens present through the Gateway ahead of him. They vanish into the nearby trees and Nerilea returns to signal that all is clear.

Rand, Min, and Nynaeve pass through the Gateway and wait in view of Natrin's Barrow until Ramshalan returns under strong Compulsion accompanied by a group of Maidens. Rand then channels balefire to destroy the entire palace and population of Natrin's Barrow. Min feels a wave come from the direction of the Barrow, as if the world itself almost collapsed and Nynaeve is furious and disgusted with the murder of so many innocents. He "confirms" Graendal's death by having Nynaeve check that the Compulsion is no longer on Ramshalan's mind. Leaving Ramshalan behind with directions to a village two days south, the rest return to Bandar Eban through the Gateway. 

Back in Bandar Eban, Nynaeve initially defends Rand's behavior, saying if he had been that cold in the beginning, how many more people would still be alive. Min points out that he's stopped caring about anything other than defeating the Dark One and Nynaeve agrees. Min and Nynaeve decide to inform Cadsuane what just happened and ask what Cadsuane plans for Rand in the future. When they reach Cadsuane, she is with Wise Ones and they all claim they felt the world warping but assumed it was the Dark One's work. Nynaeve wishes to be a part of their plans for Rand and once she agrees to be obedient, Cadsuane, while not agreeing to share their full plans yet, orders Nynaeve to find Perrin.





Chapter 38. The Gathering Storm/Chapter 38 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere


During a regular meeting in Tel'aran'rhiod Siuan Sanche asks Egwene to give up her plan to undermine Elaida from within the White Tower. Egwene only agrees to be rescued if she is scheduled for stilling and execution but until then, she forbids any attempt. Siuan then informs her that Gawyn Trakand has arrived in the rebel Aes Sedai camp. After the meeting Egwene visits the Rebel Aes Sedai camp for a while to avoid returning to sleep or worse to waking in her cramped cell.

On the next day after waking up Egwene is released from her cell by order from Elaida a'Roihan to resume her punishment as a Novice under the new Mistress of Novices Katerine Alruddin. On the way to the novice quarters and shielded by two red sisters, Saerin Asnobar interrupts and says she must speak with Egwene. She intimidates the sisters shielding Egwene and they fall back, allowing Saerin to speak with Egwene as they continue walking. She reports to Egwene that Silviana Brehon demanded Egwene's release in the Hall and was declared to be stilled and executed by Elaida, calling for Elaida's removal as Amyrlin. Egwene orders Saerin back to the Hall to do what she can to stop this. Egwene knows the Reds shielding her heard the exchange and asks why aren't they moving to help their Ajah. Then she sends a passing novice, Marsial, to fetch forkroot tea so the two red sisters do not have to maintain the shield but can help convincing their Reds that executing Silviana would collapse their own Ajah. After Egwene receives and drinks the tea she enters her room alone where Verin Mathwin is already waiting for her. Verin intentionally makes an obviously false comment, violating the first oath and immediately compelling Egwene's attention.





Chapter 39. A Visit from Verin Sedai 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene al'Vere states that Verin Mathwin, who is sitting in her room, has never held the Oath Rod. Verin replies she has, but has had the oaths removed due to being Black Ajah. Verin tells Egwene to thank Laras for the tea that she is drinking and then carries on by thanking Egwene for the progress she has made within the White Tower. Verin warns Egwene that the Dark One will not fight Tarmon Gai'don as Rand al'Thor assumes he will. She also points out that the Forsaken are predictable because they are so selfish, but not all evil is as obvious. She goes on to tell Egwene her reason for joining the Black Ajah, to save herself from being killed. Since she become Black Ajah, she might as well study them. Tomas was also a Darkfriend but wanted to come back to the light, however the Dark One would not let him leave so easily. So Verin bonded Tomas and they then began their task, working from the inside of the Black Ajah. The Dark One's oaths are very specific; that you cannot betray the Dark One or his secrets until the hour of death. Verin then reveals she is drinking poison and dying. Tomas has as well and is spending his last hour with his family.

Verin then provides Egwene with two books, a small blue book which is a key to translate the larger red book which contains Verin's life work. Within the red book are the names of every Black Ajah member Verin could find. Verin shows Egwene a red strap which when turned, can make the book invisible. Verin wanted to try and take the Dark One's oaths away with the Oath Rod but couldn't find it. With one final warning from Verin, that Mesaana is hiding in the Tower although she is unsure of who she is, Verin begins to go unconscious. She tells Egwene that she believes she will be Amyrlin one day and as she is dying, she says she wants to be remembered as Brown Ajah, but Egwene tells her that her soul is White and pure. Verin then passes away. Turese, who is outside guarding Egwene opens the door to check on her. Egwene tells Turese that Verin is asleep. Turese then leaves the room believing Egwene.

Egwene begins to translate the red book and finds out the Katerine Alruddin, Alviarin Freidhen, Elza Penfell and Galina Casban are near the top of the Black Ajah. She finds there are 21 Blues, 28 Browns, 30 Grays, 38 Greens, 17 Whites, 21 Yellows and 48 Reds that are Black sisters. Duhara Basaheen, Velina Behar, Sedore Dajenna, Delana Mosalaine and Talene Minly are current Sitters who are Black. Egwene is particularly pained by discovering her Keeper of the Chronicles Sheriam Bayanar and Moria Karentanis, a Blue who was very strong in supporting Egwene, are Black. The list also contains a number of other sisters but clears Lelaine Akashi, Romanda Cassin and Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan, the latter being thoroughly researched by Verin. Elaida was just an unstable woman and not Black, frustrating the Black Ajah just as much as the rest of the Tower. Nicola Treehill then enters Egwene's room to deliver a bowl of soup for Verin but also to be sure that Verin has done no harm to Egwene. Nicola verifies that Egwene is safe, and leaves. In the soup, Egwene finds a note telling her to wait. Soon Meidani enters the room. Egwene tells her that Verin is dead, poisoned by a Darkfriend shortly before her arrival. Meidani then fills Egwene in on the Hall's activities and that Elaida is still Amyrlin Seat, but only just. Egwene then sends Meidani away with Verin's dead body. She orders Meidani to apprehend the newly discovered Black Sister, Alviarin. 

Egwene then enters Tel'aran'rhiod to meet with Siuan Sanche. She tells Siuan that Moria and Sheriam are both Black Ajah and that she is to do nothing but watch them. Before Egwene can say any more she realizes that something is wrong and wakes up. She wakes to Nicola, shaking her, bleeding from a gash on her cheek. Nicola cries out that they are being attacked by Shadowspawn. When Egwene spots riders on serpents in the air using the One Power she realizes that the White Tower is finally being attacked by the Seanchan.





Chapter 40. The Tower Shakes 












Point of view: Siuan Sanche

Siuan awakes frightened from Tel'aran'rhiod and tells Gareth Bryne that she believes that Egwene is in danger and that she intends to rescue her from the Tower. Tijds arrives at Bryne’s tent and informs the general of trouble within the city, around the White Tower. Bryne orders the guard to stand to and sets about finding out what is going on. In discussion with Bryne, Siuan deduces that this is the Seanchan attack that Egwene had predicted.

Siuan becomes more determined to rescue Egwene after this, but Bryne is adamant that Egwene does not want to be rescued and refuses to help. Siuan then heads off to find help from another quarter.

Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

As the Tower is attacked Egwene is in company with Nicola. At a window Egwene sees the damage done to the Tower and that Seanchan are mounting an attack flying on Raken and To'raken. This attack seems to be a raid to capture Aes Sedai for enslavement as damane. Enraged, Egwene determines to fight.

Egwene arrives with the bulk of the novices and rallies them to fight; she begins to train the novices to form circles. Her dose of forkroot is wearing off and she can channel just a little, but that is enough to form a circle. Once Egwene has a circle to back her she heads off to the store rooms for items of the power and locates the very powerful Vora’s fluted wand Sa’angreal. The fight is now on in earnest.

Point of view: Siuan Sanche

Siuan, followed closely by Bryne, arrives at Gawyn Trakand’s tent. Gawyn is alarmed at Egwene’s peril and gladly accepts Siuan’s offer to get him inside the city to rescue Egwene. Bryne is alarmed at Siuan’s avoidance of her oath to Egwene and refuses to help and an argument ensues as Gawyn goes to fetch horses.

Siuan manages to convince Bryne that she won’t be stopped and he decides to help her free Egwene, at a price. Bryne demands two conditions; the first is to be bonded Siuan’s Warder. Siuan is shocked and delighted at the prospect and lays the weave upon him straight away. As the weave takes hold and the bond is formed, she senses that Bryne's feelings for her match her own for him. Siuan is unimpressed with Bryne’s all too male attitude to the bond. Bryne refuses to state his second demand until later and some embarrassment on both sides follows. Bryne decides to bring a company of his best troops to accompany them.

Point of view: Adelorna Bastine

Adelorna is running through the Tower to escape the Seanchan, she has been involved in some fighting, being defeated by the Seanchan. Adelorna encounters more Seanchan and is eventually shielded and captured. The sul'dam, Gregana collars her and gives her the damane name Sivi.

Suddenly Adelorna’s collar is unfastened and Gregana is enveloped in flame, killing her. The other damane try to weave shields, but are released from their bonds before the weaves are complete, their sul’dam are dispatched with fire and lightning. The Seanchan soldiers flee the scene.

Egwene sends novices to capture the cowering freed damane and assist Adelorna to her feet. Egwene kills some flying to’raken with weaves of fire. As the novices retreat from the engagement, Adelorna catches up to Egwene and tries to take command, but Egwene shuts her down, stating she will remain in command until the fight is over and she will be called Mother. Adelorna submits and responds "yes, Mother" thereby accepting Egwene as Amyrlin.

When Egwene finds that one of Adelorna's Warders is dead, and another seriously injured, she admires the fact she's still standing. Egwene weaves a Gateway to take Adelorna to the store rooms to bring back more angreal and Adelorna realizes that Egwene could have run at any time, but didn't run out on the Aes Sedai (even those who oppose her) in their time of great need. Egwene responds that escaping would have meant abandoning them to their fate and that, as Amyrlin, her place is with them. 





Chapter 41. A Fount of Power 






Point of view: Gawyn Trakand

Gawyn, Bryne, and Siuan, with their soldiers, all now in boats, approach the tunnel that will lead them into the city. Gawyn notes the White Tower itself seems to burn. Passing through the tunnel, they arrive at a landing with a set of stairs. As they dock the boats, Gawyn sees the soldiers each carrying small brown packages, which after unpacking and donning, are revealed to be tabards with the Flame of Tar Valon embroidered on them. Siuan is indignant, but Bryne convinces her of the necessity. Gawyn silently agrees, thinking that nothing would be more natural than to see a squadron of the Tower Guard marching in defense of the Tower.

They arrive at the Tower grounds' gates, and Siuan states that the plan is still to find Egwene, start at the base of the Tower, then head down from there, towards the basement.

Point of view: Saerin Asnobar

Saerin is trying to make some order out of the chaos of battle; she orders Moradri, a Green sister to mark out the locations of various groups of defenders on a Tower map. Captain Chubain arrives and is directed by Saerin to get himself Healed and to assist Moradri at the map. As this is happening Katerine arrives in company with three other Red sisters and promptly attempts to take command by virtue of having the worst temper there. Saerin refuses to be intimidated and insists on her rights as Sitter. Saerin then explains the situation to Katerine, during this explanation several huge explosions from outside distract the company. A soldier reports that the blasts are not directed at the Tower, but are being directed at the attackers. Captain Chubain passes on a report to Saerin that there is a second rallying point on the upper levels. The new group is reported on the 22nd floor which at first seems to be the Brown Ajah quarters, but after a second she realizes that it’s now the novices quarters and so it must be Egwene leading that fight.

Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene is fighting against the Seanchan, killing the to'raken and their masters, each almost seeming to be the sul'dam that had enslaved her. Even with this, Egwene’s rage is controlled and cold. The novices are smashing the various Seanchan incursions at the stairwells and are holding up well in combat. Although she is still suffering the effects of forkroot tea, Egwene is fighting with the help of a very powerful sa'angreal and a circle of novices; with this power available and the skill in battle learned as a Seanchan slave, she is almost death personified.

Point of view: Gareth Bryne

Bryne is nearly flattened by a falling to'raken, killed by fire from one of the Tower defenders; it is Gawyn’s timely warning that saves him. Bryne’s company is engaged with a smaller Seanchan troop, but the fight is not as easy as the numerical advantage would suggest. As the fighting abates, Bryne finds Siuan missing, although he is reassured of her well being by the warder bond.

Siuan re-appears with a novice, Hashala, in tow. She tells of how Egwene was released from the cells earlier in the day and is now probably in the novice’s quarters, on the 22nd floor, where the Brown Ajah quarters used to be. She also sees that this is a rescue attempt and asks to go along as she and almost all of the novices are loyal to Egwene. The decision to take her along is a relief to Bryne, who would have rather not left her tied up in the middle of this battle.

When Bryne gets the casualty report from this action he is distracted for a moment by the destruction wrought upon the once majestic structure of the White Tower. The losses are not too serious although he is again saddened by three men who will not survive to receive healing. Siuan picks up this through the bond and Heals the dying men. As the Healing is in progress a Seanchan Bloodknife attacks and is killed by Bryne thanks to his bond enhanced awareness and reactions. The Seanchan appears to push Brynes sword arm away and dies. Siuan is reminded of Min’s viewing about her being in danger if Bryne is not with her. Remembering the viewing properly Siuan delves Bryne and discovers a poisoned needle that the Bloodknife had stabbed him with when he gripped Bryne's arm. Siuan heals Bryne and tells him of Min’s viewing.

Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

The battle done, Egwene is exhausted. She has sent her circle of novices to bed as they are all as tired as she is. From where she is seated she is able to see the grounds through a rent in the tower and she is pleased to see that the fires in the grounds are being brought under control. Egwene remembers with some pride her actions during the battle, but regrets that some of the Seanchan got away with captured initiates.

While she is trying to focus on putting the Tower back to rights she seems to drift off to sleep. She thinks she sees Gawyn and hears his voice; a very nice dream. Then Gareth Bryne’s voice followed by Siuan’s are added to the conversation, they are upset that she had been left alone in the hallways. Egwene sleepily revels in the pride that she had destroyed the Seanchan attack and is confident that they will not be eager to face her again.

Siuan finds the rod and is pleased that she will be able to travel back to their encampment without chancing the Tower corridors now that the confusion is lessening. Egwene is determined to stay and realizes that she is now in a position to unite the Tower under her leadership, but she is just too drowsy to  even speak, much less be able to do anything to interfere with Siuan’s plans.

Point of view: Saerin Asnobar

Saerin is taking stock of the situation after the battle has finished. The Forward Gathering room is now being used as a casualty collection point and sisters are Healing the wounded. Sitting in the corner of the room, Saerin reads a report on Egwene's activities and marvels at just how effectively she had led the fight. Damane captured, sisters gathered in and a remarkably low casualty rate and all centered around a girl who Elaida insisted was “simply a novice”.

Captain Chubain comes over to Saerin with a distraught Accepted Mair in tow. Saerin commands her to report and she tells of an attack on Elaida’s quarters that collapsed a wall, covering her, and carried off a sleeping Elaida.

Point of view: Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan Setting: Somewhere outside of Tar Valon

Elaida wakens on an oddly undulating bed and there is a terrible draft; servants will be made to pay for this lapse. Coming to her senses Elaida realizes that she isn’t in a bed, she’s restrained and looking down at the ground passing by a few hundred feet below. She reaches for the source and feels immense pain as if she was being beaten.

There is a collar at Elaida’s throat and she can sense another woman by her side. The sul’dam gives Elaida the damane name of Suffa and when she reacts to this, the pain returns this time even more severely. Elaida is still screaming as we leave her heading south into the night.





Chapter 42. Before the Stone of Tear 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand is leaving Arad Doman feeling as though he has failed. He hasn't been able to track down enough council members to have a new king named, and the Seanchan and Trollocs would soon be poised to attack the country. Milisair Chadmar and the other four that the Aiel had been able to track down have returned to their mansions. Bashere tells Rand he expects them to flee once Rand is gone. They talk of Rodel, Rand is told he has been seeing large forces of Trollocs gathering in the Blight, always just out of sight, but large enough to overwhelm Rodel and his army. As they are about to leave, Iralin approaches to tell Rand that all the food - in the stores and the food the Sea Folk brought has gone bad and is totally inedible. There is nothing Rand can do and he steps through the gateway to Tear.

Tear is full of foreigners. He wonders where Nynaeve and Cadsuane are and what they are up to. He tells Bashere that he expects the Seanchan to take Tear and probably Illian and that when Rodel abandons the Blight, they will need the Borderlanders to return to their posts. He tells Bashere to take a couple of Asha'man and find out where they are and goes on to see Darlin and Dobraine. He surveys the lords with Darlin, thinking how many of them were opposed to him until recently and that better men have died than some that survived. Darlin tells him the armies he has raised are ready to go to Arad Doman. Rand responds that they will not be going to Arad Doman, but will be going with him to Shayol Ghul.





Chapter 43. Sealed to the Flame 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene is in her tent, shocked and angry at Siuan Sanche for "rescuing" her from the White Tower when she was on the verge of bringing Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan down. She ponders how her failure came about despite her orders to not be rescued. That morning she traveled to the White Tower and removed the Oath Rod. She also must decide on a course of action since the White Tower forces are in disarray from the Seanchan attack. After making her decision she leaves the tent only to find Gawyn sitting on the ground by the opening. Gawyn demands to know how she feels and then tries to justify his actions, but Egwene berates him for ruining her plans and not following her orders.

Point of view: Jesse Bilal

Jesse is meeting with the heads of the other Ajahs, except the Tsutama Rath from the Red who was not part of their original plans and the Blue which has no members in the White Tower. Adelorna Bastine is blaming Jesse for their failure. Watching them are Ferane Neheran from the White, Suana Dragand from the Yellow and Serancha Colvine of the Gray. The Ajah heads sent the youngest Sitters from the White Tower to the Rebel Aes Sedai, then chose young replacements which could be displaced when the Tower was reunited. They also planned to take control from Elaida but were never able to. They agree that their plan has failed and another solution needs to be found.  They decide that with Elaida gone and beyond rescue they can now bring the Rebel Aes Sedai back into the White Tower, after they choose a new Amyrlin. They each advocate a prominent member of their own Ajah and bicker over the choices. Finally they begin to consider Egwene as their choice and can't come up with any good reason why she isn't the best choice.

Point of view: Siuan Sanche

Siuan watches the tent where the Sitters and Egwene are meeting. Sheriam enters the tent, allowed entry now that the Amyrlin is back. Bryne, now her Warder, arrives and they stand close together to wait the decision of the Hall. Siuan worries that she has lost Egwene's trust but still feels the rescue was for the best since the Rebel camp was fracturing. Bryne finally tells her of the second condition she agreed to the night before, that she marry him.

Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene watches the Sitters while being aware of Sheriam sitting nearby. Egwene had only learned that Sheriam was of the Black Ajah the day before. Egwene embraces the source and asks the Sitters to refrain from doing the same. She reveals the Oath Rod, then takes the three oaths of an Aes Sedai. She then tells the Sitters that a Sister in the White Tower admitted she was a Darkfriend. She then declares that she is not a Darkfriend, proving that is true. Everyone in the tent is to release their oaths and retake them to prove they are not a Darkfriend. Sheriam embraces the source, but Egwene was prepared and immediately shields her. After tricking Sheriam into lying, Moria bolts for the exit but is quickly subdued by the other Sitters. All of the remaining Sitters retake the oaths and prove their loyalty.

They plan how to capture the seventy or so Black Ajah members that are with the Rebels. All the sisters will be summoned by Ajah. As each Ajaha convenes, its members will be asked to re-swear the Oaths, with the Hall prepared to capture any who reveal themselves as Darkfriends by attempting escape.





Chapter 44. Scents Unknown 






Point of view: Nynaeve al'Meara

Rand and Nynaeve are riding in Maredo, accompanied by a group of Aiel. She is arguing that Tarwin's Gap gap would be the best place for an assault but Rand wants to strike at Shayol Ghul and use Lan as a distraction. She fails to change Rand's mind so focuses on the task set her by Cadsuane, to find out where Perrin is. From her questioning, Rand knows she is up to something, but won't divulge where Perrin is or how he communicates except to say they are linked.

They approach a crossroads where Rand will meet with a representative of the Borderlanders to arrange a formal meeting. Rand allows the Borderlanders to bring no more than four channelers and brings the same number himself. Instead of a delegation, only Hurin waits to give Rand the message. Rand uses the source to lift Hurin off the ground and interrogates him to ensure he is not an imposter. Hurin tells Rand the meeting is to take place in Far Madding, where Rand will be unable to channel. Rand immediately makes a gateway and the group including Hurin go through. Rand then makes another gateway and again they travel through, coming out near Far Madding. The massive Borderlander army is camped around the city. Rand declares that he will not put himself into a 'box' again. He pulls out the access key to the Choedan Kal and considers using it on the army to let them know he is command. Nynaeve is able to convince him to stop before he attacks. 

He gives a message to Hurin to pass on to the Borderlander leaders. The Last Battle approaches and Rand will provide free transportation if they return to their lands. Otherwise they can stay here and not take part. They return to Tear where Rand tells her that Perrin is camped near a large statue shaped like a sword stabbing the earth. Nynaeve returns to the keep to pass on the information about Perrin to Cadsuane. Before she makes the disclosure she demands to be told what Cadsuane wants with Perrin. Cadsuane tells Nynaeve that she isn't looking for Perrin, but for someone that is traveling with him.





Chapter 45. The Tower Stands 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

As she walks through the Rebel Aes Sedai camp, Egwene wears a red dress to emphasize that she does not harbor any ill will toward the Red Ajah despite what they did to her when she was in the White Tower. The executions of the Black Ajah Aes Sedai has just been completed. Bryne is readying the army for an immediate assault on the White Tower. There were fifty executions, but twenty sisters on Verin's list escaped, somehow finding out they were being hunted. Lelaine reports that Bryne is ready. Romanda reports that no word has been received from a delegation sent to the Black Tower. Lelaine also reports all of the dream ter'angreal are gone, taken by Sheriam the night before. The only ring left is the copy Siuan kept for herself. Sheriam admitted before her execution that she gave the ter'angreal to someone in the White Tower who she believed was one of the Forsaken. 

Gawyn rides behind Egwene who is still unsure what to do with him after his part in her rescue. Bryne leads Egwene to the bridge where the assault will begin. The defending force is surprisingly small and Bryne is confident that will not be difficult. Egwene decides to wait for an hour before commencing the assault. Just as she plans to give the order, a delegation of Aes Sedai arrives at the other end of the bridge and Andaya Forae, a Gray, begins crossing the bridge toward Egwene. The delegation of ten sitters, two from each Ajah except Red and Blue, gets permission to cross and meet with Egwene. They announce that the Hall has chosen Egwene as the next Amyrlin. When Egwene asks about Elaida they respond that she is missing. They also have agreed that the Blue Ajah will be reinstated and that Bryne's army is welcome to cross the bridge. Egwene is elated as she rides to meet with the Sisters.





Chapter 46. To Be Forged Again 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene is waiting for her formal summons to the Hall while Lairain instructs her in the formalities. Egwene orders the Rebel Aes Sedai to wait at the Sunset Gate and prepare to make an apology for rebelling against the White Tower. Egwene enters the Hall where eleven Sitters await. Those missing are either on Tower business or are Black Ajah that fled. Egwene sees that no Red Sitter is in attendance and orders that Silviana be brought from her cell to the Hall immediately. The ceremony commences and Egwene is again raised Amyrlin, with Saerin Asnobar placing the stole over Egwene's shoulders.

Silviana arrives and approaches Egwene and kneels. Some of the Sitters object to Egwene dispensing justice at this time. She berates all of them for the injustice done to Silviana, the dissension among the Ajahs, the original decision to depose Siuan and raise Elaida and their inaction as Elaida made one poor decision after another. She then requests Silviana be her Keeper, partially to show that the Red Ajah is not being left out of events. Silviana accepts, saying she would be honored to serve. After a few encouraging words to the Sitters, they leave the Hall to meet up with the Rebel Aes Sedai. Silviana then asks about her current Keeper with the Rebel Aes Sedai but Egwene tells her she was Black and executed. 

Egwene addresses both groups of Aes Sedai, shaming them for their actions but encouraging them to begin anew to make a re-forged White Tower.





Chapter 47. The One He Lost 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor


Rand wanders the Stone, reminiscing about his earlier travels with Mat, Perrin, Loial and Hurin. He wonders about the prophecies about Callandor and the lack of any mention of the Choedan Kal. He considers kicking Cadsuane from the Stone to enforce his exile. His anger is buried deep but is still there because of the defiance of the Borderlanders, the Seanchan and the Aes Sedai. Perhaps he should use the Choedan Kal against the Seanchan. He recalls his attempt to bring a dead girl back to life, the memory prompted by Lews Therin. He resolves to drive the Seanchan back in to the sea.

He returns to his rooms and finds Tam waiting. Their meeting starts out awkward since Rand has changed so much. They finally begin to chat a bit more normally. Tam is giving encouragement to Rand when he accidentally mentions Cadsuane which infuriates Rand so much he almost kills Tam, almost channels balefire to kill everyone. He sees Tam's terrified face and comes to his senses. He weaves a gateway to Ebou Dar.





Chapter 48. Reading the Commentary 






Point of view: Min Farshaw

Min is waiting with Cadsuane for a report from Tam on his meeting with Rand. She regrets the alliance with her because she interrogates Min all the time about her viewings. She ponders a line from the book she is reading, "He shall hold a blade of light in his hands, and the three shall be one". Commentators feel the passage is vague and some say the three shall be cities, but she feels the scholarly interpretations of the line are wrong and says so, disturbing the others in the room. Min believes Callandor will need to be used by Rand as part of a circle and Cadsuane confirms that she believes the same.

A very angry Tam bursts in to the room asking what Cadsuane has done to his son. They begin to exchange words and Cadsuane lifts Tam into the air, telling him he needs to be civil around her. Tam calls her a bully, just like others that use fists instead of the Power. Min finally jumps in saying that they can not make him do what they want. Tam mentions Rand left by Gateway and they determine he went to Ebou Dar, to destroy the Seanchan as he said earlier to his Maiden escort.





Chapter 49. Just Another Man 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand wanders the streets in Ebou Dar and becomes impressed with the order the Seanchan have brought to the city. He talked with one of the many bands of Tinkers the night before and found they were considering settling, having found some place where they aren't persecuted. He begins to wonder if he has chosen the right path for holding in his emotions, since he almost killed his father. He again begins planning to destroy the Seanchan. His plan is to destroy the Tarasin Palace, where the Daughter of the Nine Moons lives, then destroy the fleet in the harbor. He would then begin traveling around destroying garrisons and supply depots. He could then do the same in other countries held by the Seanchan.

He seizes saidin and is gripped by the worst nausea ever, and falls to the ground holding the access key. A crowd gathers near him, looking concerned for his well-being. Instead of beginning his attack, he makes a Gateway and skims rather than travels and curls up on the platform. He arrives at a field where he fought the Seanchan. He makes another Gateway and travels to the top of Dragonmount, created by the death of Lews Therin Telamon. He makes a fire with saidin, sets the Access Key down on the ground and begins to think.





Chapter 50. Veins of Gold 






Point of view: Rand al'Thor

Rand al'Thor sits on the peak of Dragonmount and thinks of what point is there to continue. He tried to lead the people and unite them but it had failed. He thought that by making himself harder, that that would work. But it had also failed and he had nearly killed his father. Rand notes that all the deaths he has caused has started to rub his soul raw. The pain started with Moiraine Damodred's name at the top of his list. The quiet voice that is Rand's conscience disappeared the moment he threw down his father and tried to kill him.

Rand rises up from where he was sitting and shouts in fury to the heavens, holding the One Power. He wonders aloud about the point to the Pattern when people are reborn over and over again destined to create the same mistakes. Great deeds and great tragedies are committed, kingdoms are raised and destroyed, and all are destined to become legend and then eventually forgotten. He draws more and more of saidin in through the Choedan Kal as he contemplates the inevitability of it all. He now holds as much of the One Power as could be held, more than the amount used to cleanse saidin, probably more than anyone else has ever held. Rand stands there ready to burn the entire Pattern away so that nothing will ever matter again. Rand remembers his failure at Shayol Ghul, how he caused the taint and the death of Ilyena. He wonders why he was reborn, to do this again, only to fail.

Lews Therin Telamon whispers in Rand's head, shockingly sane compared to Rand. He reverently says that they live again to have a second chance. Rand is frozen with shock, the world goes still as he thinks about Tam's words to him: Why go to battle? What is the point? Because each time you live again you get to love again. Rand remembers thousands of loves across the infinity of time and the peace, and the joy and hope it brings each time. Rand realizes that if he lives again then maybe she will as well. Rand knows the answer to Tam's questions—he fights because he did something wrong and he lives again to fix it. He wants to do it right this time.

Rand draws all the Power he can muster connected with the Choedan Kal, and turns it on itself into the sa'angreal. Far to the south, near Cairhien, the Choedan Kal explodes, the Power winks out, and the tempest ends.

Rand opens his eyes for what seems the first time. He has a strange feeling that he will never again hear Lews Therin's voice inside his head. They were not two different men and never had been. He looks into the sky and sees the sun's rays through the gloom. He smiles and lets out a rich and true laugh.

It has been far too long.





Chapter 51. Bathed in Light 






Point of view: Egwene al'Vere

Egwene is working in the Amyrlin's Study grateful she finally has a real desk and chair. Everything Elaida had in the room has been removed, so the walls are bare. Silviana is showing herself to be an effective Keeper and choosing her has brought at least a truce with the Red Ajah. Romanda and Lelaine are unhappy that Egwene plans to train the captured damane to be Aes Sedai. Another sixty Black Ajah sisters managed to escape, including Alviarin, but a few of the weakest were captured since they weren't able to use Traveling. The Seanchan captured two dozen Aes Sedai and almost as many Accepted or novices. Mesaana was not found and may still be in the Tower, somehow getting around using the Oath Rod.

Silviana requests Egwene come to the Hall of the Sitters where they look out at Dragonmount through the hole in the wall made during the Seanchan attack. The clouds have broken in a circular ring centered on Dragonmount. Egwene asks Silviana to mark the date, expecting to someday know what the sunlight means.



At the end of time, when the many become one, the last storm shall gather its angry winds to destroy a land already dying. And at its center, the blind man shall stand upon his own grave. There he shall see again, and weep for what has been wrought.- from the Prophecies of the Dragon, Essanik Cycle. Malhavish's Official Translation, Imperial Record House of Seandar, Fourth Circle of Elevation.
At the end of time, when the many become one, the last storm shall gather its angry winds to destroy a land already dying. And at its center, the blind man shall stand upon his own grave. There he shall see again, and weep for what has been wrought.— - from the Prophecies of the Dragon, Essanik Cycle. Malhavish's Official Translation, Imperial Record House of Seandar, Fourth Circle of Elevation.




