Chapter 0. Distinctions.






Point of view: LAN Mandragoran Setting: Saldaean wilderness.


LAN Mandragoran is traveling through Saldaea en route to battle the dark forces. He is annoyed that Nine'eev al'Meera tricked him. He is greeted by Bulen, whom he does not recognize at first. Bulen explains that LAN's wife, Nine'eev Sedai, was recruiting men to ride with him. LAN is tormented again with memories and tricks of Eyes Sedai, alongside his promises, duty and honor. He doesn't want the death of more men on his conscience and tries to send Bulen away. After years of association with the conniving Eyes Sedai it is telling that his thoughts can entertain circumventing his promise to his wife. He considers that he wouldn't be breaking his promise by refusing the standing Bulen, because by the wording of his promise Bulen wasn't on a horse and thus it wouldn't actually be breaking his promise.

LAN informs Bulen that he hasn't raised the Golden Crane and that he should return where he came from. Bulen states that although his mother was Kandori, his father was Malkieri. He wants to wear the hadori of his father but has no one to ask if he can. He tells LAN that there is no food to hunt but he has come with provisions. He wants to fight by LAN's side and calls him King. LAN remembers that he isn't Eyes Sedai and his honor and duty sways his decision and LAN bestows honor upon Bulen with the gift of wearing the hadori. LAN tells Bulen that they ride in secret. LAN no longer rides alone.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra Setting: 'Tel'aran'rhiod'.


Pairin Eyebarra is having troubling dreams with Aram's haunting death and struggling with his self identity. He is in a dream trying to make something, but he can't figure out what he is making even though he knows that it is important. Hopper is encouraging him to embrace his wolf nature, yet Pairin fears losing his humanity to become a wild animal.

Pairin's camp is recuperating from a bubble of evil that has left many injured.



Point of view: Graendal Setting: Natrin's Barrow, Arad Doman.


Graendal is sheltering Delana Mosalaine and Aran'gar at her Natrin's Barrow estate. Garumand enters to inform Graendal of Piqor Ramshalan's visit. Graendal realises Rand al'Thor knows where she is and at first intends to flee but remembers her instructions to cause Rand great anguish. She has both Aran'gar and Delanna lay a weave of Compulsion on Ramshalan, then sends him back to confuse Rand. Graendal uses the True Power to control a flying dove and spies Ramshalan meeting with Rand and Nine'eev. Seeing Rand with the access key and realizing his intent she releases the dove and the True Power to quickly seize saidar, Shielding both Aran'gar and Delana to prevent them from escaping with her. Rand's Balefire destroys Natrin's Barrow with all the occupants while Graedal escapes through her gateway just in time. She can feel the world react as the balescream strikes.



Point of view: Galadedrid Dawmodred Setting: Ghealdan in wilderness.


Galaad leads his weary group of Whitecloaks through a massive swamp on the Ghealdan and Altara border. He inspires his men with a speech defining the meaning of being one of the Children of the Light. 
Later, Jaret Byar confronts Galaad with the mission to defeat the White Tower rather than build an alliance with it. Upon finally reaching the edge of the swamp Galaad encounters a large force of Amadician and Children of the Light. He goes to meet Rhadam Asunawa and the five Lord Captains with him. Galaad debates with Asunawa over the Children of the Light oaths preventing surrender to the Shawn'chin. Asunawa claims Galaad a Darkfriend. Galaad bargains with Asunawa, agreeing to submit if his men are not put to the question and are not harmed. Thus, Galaad is captured for questioning.



Point of view: Padan Fain Setting: The Blight.


In the Blight Padan Fain walks away from a Jumara he just killed. He then attacks trollocs with Mashadar which is lapping at his feet. He gains control of the trollocs, while killing the Myrddraal causes Fain some disappointment that the Myrddraal isn't under his control. He keeps refering to himself as Fain and Mordeth. He prioritizes his objectives and sets off to first kill Rand, then next target the Dark One.



Point of view: Malenarin Rai Setting: Heeth Tower, Kandor.


Inside the Heeth Tower, Commander Malenarin Rai is informed by Jargen that a flash has come from Rena Tower, but no following flash message has been seen. Malenarin instructs the men to flash the southern towers and then sends a group of men, including his son Keemlin Rai south, with the message in case the Tower system is broken. They make preparations for the expected siege. Commander Malenarin is surprised when Keemlin tells him he sent Tian instead, because Tian is lighter and can ride faster, but more importantly because Tian's mother has already lost four sons. Malenarin sends Kralle to fetch his sword. He then gives Keemlin the sword to honor him as a man. All men on the tower-top watch the ceremony and cheer at it's conclusion. There is still no flash reply from Rena and now no reply from Farmay Tower. Hordes of shadowspawn from the north attack. They can only hope against these overpowering numbers to last, somehow, long enough for the south to prepare. In the name of the light they fight courageously.





Chapter 1. Apples First.






Point of view: Almen Bunt.


Almen Bunt stands with Adim and Hahn in his sister Alysa's apple orchard. During the night every single tree shriveled its fruit and shed them from the tree, losing an entire crop in the process. The orchard was one of the largest producers in the region. The other two defer to Almen's experience. He sends them to get Uso and Moor to see if they can dig through any of the remains to find any apples that may not have rotted too much. He sniffs and smells a wrongness to the air like something evil. He stands there thinking about how bleak the world around him has become, how all the food is running out, and how all the nearby villages are barely able to feed themselves. He slumps down thinking about Adrinne Bunt, ready to give it all up, when he feels sunlight on his neck.

He spots a break in the cloud cover and smells apple blossoms. Rand al'Thor walks by, returning from Dragonmount; his presence holds back the foulness of the Dark One's touch. Vegetation and the apples rapidly blossom. Almen feels a strange sense of peace while in Rand's presence. In addition, the pain in Almen's hip is now gone. Almen recognizes Rand from when he gave him a ride in his cart two years ago. He also realizes that Rand is the Dragon Reborn. Rand replies cryptically to Almen's question, stating he is going to do something he has been putting off, and he doubts she will be pleased with what he tells her. Rand strides away telling Almen that he needs to pick the apples now before nightfall. Wondering what Rand is talking about Almen turns to see almost too many apples laden on every single tree in the orchard.

Almen sprints towards Alysa's house and following Rand's instructions he commands everyone, including the nearby villagers, to immediately gather and pick all the apples. Almen feels a pull inside of him, tugging him softly in Rand's direction. "Apples first, he thought. Then... well, then he'd see."





Chapter 2. Questions of Leadership.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

The newly always present cloud cover has recently turned black. Pairin Eyebarra's group has almost reached the Jehannah Road. A recent sickness had struck his camp, and because of it along with the thick mud covering the ground, he has reached in a month where he had planned to be in only a week's time. The men he had sent ahead with the supplies, including Basel Gill, are nowhere to be seen. Pairin accepts a group of mercenaries that wish to join. In return for their service, he offers them food. Pairin chastises himself for causing his army to have more mouths to feed, but realizes that if he didn't, the mercenaries would probably turn to pillaging. Pairin is annoyed that his men insist on keeping bodyguards around him at all times. On that day his bodyguards are Wil al'Seen and Reed Soalen.

Jerrard Arganda calls out Pairin's name and pushes through the Mayene's lines to reach Pairin. Arganda scolds Pairin for taking in another group of mercenaries. Pairin retaliates by stating that it is only a small band. Arganda argues that they are deserters that should be hung, but Pairin reminds Arganda of his authority, and that Arganda has absolutely no poof. Pairin attempts to comfort Arganda by allowing him to question the men on where they originate. Pairin's scouts have finally returned. They return with a man named Fennel who was with the group Pairin had sent ahead. He informs Pairin that they turned onto the Jehannah Road because they met a group of travelers that informed them that the roads were muddier going north away from the Jehannah Road. Pairin changes his course to travel along the road. Faile Bashere and Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron approach him. Pairin has an argument with Faile over his actions during Malden. Aram's death, fellow Two Rivers men's thoughts on him, and his actions towards the army keep circulating through his head. Faile merely scoffs at the notion, believing he did everything right as a leader. She says this is to be expected of tahveeren. She tells him there is something else that he will wish to see.

Point of view: Galadedrid Dawmodred.

Galadedrid Dawmodred wakes up naked, chained, and beaten in a tent. Dried blood mats his face, and he hurts. He is about to be Questioned, and he accepts this fact. He moves over to the flaps of the tent and proceeds to clean his face. He struggles with this as he has little spit. Hearing shouts coming from outside he presumes that the Questioners are coming for him. He stands up, wanting to take his death in the noblest of fashion. The tent flaps open and Dain Bornhauld, Jaret Byar, and another man walk in. Galaad is confused with this as they undo his chains. They throw a bag to the ground, wherein lies the head of Rhadam Asunawa. The men kneel down before Galaad, asking him to be their new Lord Captain Commander. He grudgingly accepts and takes the mantle of Commander.





Chapter 3. Towers of Midnight/Chapter 3.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


While dreaming, Igwayne al'Veer calls Nine'eev al'Meera back to the White Tower and then she also has some true dreams. She infers from one that Mesaana is still in the tower, somehow being able to out-maneuver the Oath Rod. Her Keeper, Silviana Brehon, then informs her that the Dragon Reborn has come to the White Tower to bid an audience.



Point of view: Sewan Sawnchay.


Sewan Sawnchay is walking the halls of the White Tower with the Captain of the Tower Guard, Jimar Chubain, and the Brown, Syreen Asnobar, after hearing the former racing by with the news of Rand al'Thor's presence. She has already summoned her Warder, Gareth Bryne back by messenger as she feels she will need his steadying presence.

Chubain is worried that he'll be losing his captaincy to Gareth Bryne, and the fact that Rand al'Thor entered the White Tower freely could be a reason, but Sewan knows this won't happen as Gareth will be needed instead as a Field General at the Last Battle.

Though Rand al'Thor comes alone, accepting to be shielded and encircled by a hundred of warders, the sisters in Tower's corridors are almost panicking, suspecting that Rand is playing some game and wondering why he comes.

The three, while heading for the Hall of the Tower come across yet another section of the tower in which the Dark One's power has been made manifest, turning the floor stones a wet blood red. While walking, Sewan contemplates her changed role in managing Dragon Reborn and in the upcoming Last Battle.

Gareth joins the three and shortly he and Sewan are filing in to the large antechamber. When she spots Rand al'Thor, he turns and, ignoring the two full circles shielding him and the ring of Warders surrounding him, walks straight to Sewan and greets her by name. She is surprised by Rand's eyes looking like experiencing thousands lives and an ageless face, similar to those of Eyes Sedai. Stunned warders let him pass. He also recognizes that Gareth became Sewan's warder and asks what kind of Amyrlin Igwayne has become and notes that Sewan has changed since the last time they met. He mentions it will not be easy for him to meet the Amyrlin as she was his first love. Sewan is surprised that a male channeler is not afraid to be in the White Tower.

Tiana Noselle gives Rand a sealed letter she promised to deliver from someone else, most probably Verin, saying that she would never believe he really comes. Rand asks Sewan to appease Igwayne after he finishes and enters the Hall of the Tower. Nobody seems able to stop him.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne meets with Rand, prepared to be hard, but she is surprised by his diplomacy and calmness. Rand explains that he was broken and reforged again, that the Dark One almost got him. He mentions that he hated Eyes Sedai and was afraid of them. He also admits that he didn't want his deeds to be overcome by the acts of Eyes Sedai, though he should rather  be thankful for so many "culprits" to be blamed for his "crimes". Igwayne is still considering his sanity, what he understands. However, he refuses to be tested as he has not enough time and too many things to do. He comes only to announce his plans to allow Eyes Sedai to prepare. He plans to break the seals on the Dark One's Prison at Shay'ole Ghoul in one month's time and needs the help of female channelers to seal him back in for good. Igwayne is reluctant to accept this idea, but Rand simply asks her to meet him one day before he goes to Shay'ole Ghoul to talk about his conditions. She asks herself if she could imprison him, but she is not finding this a good idea and feels that he could break the shields easily. When Rand leaves, she notices that his left hand is gone. Other sisters, overwhelmed by Rand's tahveeren nature, are asking her how she could think during this conversation. Then Igwayne reconvenes the Hall in one hour's time to plan what to do with the month they have been given.





Chapter 4. The Pattern Groans.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra and a large group of Two Rivers men, Far Dareis Mai, Wise Ones, and Faile Bashere and Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron reach the spot mentioned by the scouts. The meadow to the side of the Jehannah Road had taken the appearance of the Blight: spotted, and smelling of rot. In the center of the meadow was a village of curiously-made huts, all deserted. They determine that the village had been transported there from the Blight and Pairin orders that it all be burnt with the One Power to try and keep it from spreading.

Later, Pairin finds himself in the Wolf Dream, after having fallen asleep reading a copy of the Travels of Jain Farstrider. The wolf inside him was being called to form a pack and fight against a gathering storm. Hopper appeared, and attempted to teach Pairin how to use the Wolf Dream. He saw some visions: Matrim Cauthon fighting against several visions of himself and not seeing a shadowy figure with a bloody knife sneaking behind him; sheep in a flock with wolves (who looked wrong) chasing them towards a terrible beast; Eye’eel, Gaul, and Elyas Machera running towards and off of a cliff.

Hopper returns and shows Pairin an image of how he looked while he was hunting for Faile; an image bearing striking similarities to Noam. Pairin finally remembers how to quick-move while Dreamwalking and catches up to the pack to run with them a while. Despite fearing losing himself to the wolves, he caught the scent of a white stag and became a wolf, Young Bull in the dream. He caught and was about to kill, but Hopper stopped him from killing it since this would cause it to die the final death. Hopper would teach Pairin of the Wolf Dream, and though it would push him close to becoming lost in the wolf, Pairin would learn. He had avoided it for too long.



Point of view: Galadedrid Dawmodred.


Galadedrid Dawmodred had his fewer-than-20,000 Children pitching camp on their way to Andor some way west of the great highways to keep them away from the movements of opposing forces. He was arguing with his Lords Captain about sending a letter to the remaining Questioners and Children of the Light still under the control of the Shawn'chin, letting them know what had happened and asking that they join him as soon as possible. Conversation quickly turned to Galaad's plan to ally the Children with the Eyes Sedai for the Last Battle, and how the over-eagerness of the Children may have distanced them from allies.

Jaret Byar returned from watching the Jehannah Road, having zealously captured a strange group of dozens of travelers and their heavily-laden carts: Pairin's camp followers. Basel Gill heads the caravan and is questioned by Galaad, formulating a clever story about merchants. Catching the scent of a lie, Galaad separates the captives so they could be questioned independently and their stories compared. The questioning revealed the location and composition of Pairin's camp, much to Child Bornhauld's frenzied pleasure. Child Bornhauld is delighted because Byar had reported that Pairin had killed his father, when in fact Dain Bornhauld's father died in the charge expelling the Shawn'chin from Fal'meh.





Chapter 5. Writings.






Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Gawyn Trakand walks through the The White Tower with Sleete. They arrive at a guarded room, just as soldiers exit it carrying the dead body of an Eyes Sedai. She is the fourth sister that has been found murdered inside the Tower. Gawyn enters the room and searches the crime scene. The murder victim is Kateri Nepvue and there is nothing that she shares in common with the other victims. It is assumed that it is the Black Ajah, but no channeling has been detected. It is believed that the Black Ajah enter via Gateways, but there is no evidence to support this either. Sleete examines the door and believes that it has been forced open. None of the sisters had Warders and they have been murdered with a knife rather than the One Power. Captain Jimar Chubain is present and acts hostile towards Gawyn during the investigation. Gawyn takes him aside and tells him that Gawyn wants to be Igwayne al'Veer's Warder and not take Chubain's job. Chubain becomes more agreeable and helps Gawyn with his investigation. Sleete finds some black silk in the room. Gawyn decides to seek out Igwayne, as he believes that she knows more about the murders than she is publically saying. When he gets to Igwayne's office, he is rebuffed by Silviana Brehon so Gawyn watches the practice grounds below. The Younglings are training with most have them have been bonded to become Warders. Igwayne opens her door to ask Silviana a question and Gawyn takes the opportunity to enter the office. Gawyn asks Igwayne to make the sisters all bond Warders. Igwayne promises to bring the merits of bonding a Warder to the Hall of the Tower. Gawyn then discusses the murders. Igwayne believes that Mesaana is the culprit. Igwayne asks Gawyn to stop guarding her room at night as she is using herself as bait. Igwayne is confident she can best Mesaana in a battle, as Mesaana was more an administrator than warrior. Gawyn is not at all impressed by the plan and takes his leave to practice the sword.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne cares for Gawyn and sees the merit in bonding him, but believes he is still too loose at the moment. She looks over her letter to King Darlin Sisnera, asking him for support in stopping Rand al'Thor from breaking the Seals. Igwayne is pleased with Gawyn's suggestion on sisters bonding Warders and prepares to write up the formal letter. Igwayne can't help thinking about Gawyn, particularly at night, which is another reason why she didn't want him outside her room.



Point of view: Graendal.


Graendal hides in her most secret hiding place in the Aryth Ocean. She is still found by a messenger from the Dark One. One of her pets, Alteima, is present. Graendal steps through the Gateway and is greeted by Moridin. He is not happy that Aran'gar is lost to the Pattern and that Graendal had a hand in her death. Graendal spins the story that she lead Rand al'Thor to Natrin's Barrow. al'Thor's killing of innocents will eat away at his conscience therefore fulfilling what the Great Lord desired. Moridin grudgingly agrees and after receiving communication from the Great Lord directly, lets Graendal off without any punishment. Graendal, searching for a way to make up for her mistake, reveals to Moridin her plan to kill Pairin Eyebarra. Moridin leads Graendal to a room lined with hundreds of objects of Power. He gives her a Dreamspike to use, telling her that the other one he has is occupied at the moment. Moridin warns her to not use the dreamspike against any of the other Forsaken. He also lends Graendal Slayer. If she succeeds, she will be rewarded with more access to the True Power. Moridin then shows her a book full of dark prophecies. The two Chosen interpret that Pairin will die at their hand from one of the prophesies. Moridin opens a Gateway with the True Power, which Graendal still has access to, despite her failure, with the warning not to fail again.





Chapter 6. Questioning Intentions.






Point of view: Morgays Trakand.


Morgays Trakand serves Pairin Eyebarra and all the leaders of his army tea, where they discuss matters arising. Nevarin and the Wise Ones found a village completely tainted by the Blight, which they burnt away. The army is traveling after Basel Gill and the other refugees from Malden, working their way steadily towards the border of Lugard. Pairin intends to send Queen Alliandre Maritha Kigarin back to Ghealdan once they find Gill and his people. Alliandre is loathe to do this, as more of her people are joining the ranks of Pairin's army anyway and she wishes to fight in Tarmon Gai'don under his banner, having sworn an oath to him. Pairin sends for Wil al'Seen and asks him to take down every Wolf-Head Banner and burn them. Pairin refuses to have men march under him as he is no leader, just a blacksmith. The other leaders argue against Pairin doing this, but Pairin is dead set on collapsing the army once they have finished their final task. Pairin asks Jewr Grady to send some of the refugees back to their homes now by Gateway. Both him and Fager Neald are recovering from a sickness. Sebban Balwer suggests sending scouts to survey the land before sending refugees back by Gateway, and to Kai'rienne (city) to get in contact with Rand. Grady is still uncertain about how long he can hold a Gateway open, when Edarra suggests creating a circle and Linking together to form a larger Gateway that will last for longer. Pairin gives them the green-light to start trying. Seonid Traighan asks to be part of the scouting mission to Kai'rienne. Balwer also wishes to go to make contact with the school that Rand established in Kai'rienne. The meeting ends and everyone leaves the pavilion. 
Pairin calls over Morgays and Martyn Tallanvor, who was lurking nearby. He tells them both to get themselves ready as he intends to have them both married today. Morgays refuses saying that he does not have the authority to order something like this. Tallanvor stalks away. Morgays reprimands Pairin on the importance of decorum and discusses how a true leader should act. As she leaves she notices some Far Dareis Mai walking into the tent. Sulin reports that there is a large army of Children of the Light camped in front of them.





Chapter 7. Lighter than a Feather.






Point of view: LAN Mandragoran.


LAN is near the border of Kandor and Saldaea. Bulen now travels beside LAN, where they travel mostly at night so as not to be seen. They approach a group of three men. Bulen notices that two of them wear the Hadori. As LAN approaches them, the three, Nazar Kurenin, Rakim and Andere ride out and pass LAN. LAN nonplussed asks them to stop following him, to which they reply that they are actually ahead of him. However, if a king ordered them, they would obey. LAN flatly tells them that there is no king to a fallen kingdom. LAN tries to persuade them to not ride to their deaths, to which Rakim replies that death is lighter than a feather. LAN concedes and the two become five.



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Galadedrid Dawmodred sits inside his tent while his officers report to him. The Children of the Lights captives  told them where the army would be. Reports say that the flag of Ghealdan and Mayene fly, although the wolfhead banner was taken down the previous day, confirming that Pairin Eyebarra is within the camp. Jaret Byar tells Galaad that Pairin killed Dain's father and that he is from the Two Rivers, where they met previously . Galaad asks for a full report on Pairin.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin has camped his army by the Jehannah Road, contemplating the emergence of the Whitecloak army might be linked to his vision of wolves chasing sheep to the edge of a cliff. He eats breakfast with Gaul seated on the floor.



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Byar informs Galaad that the Children fought Trollocs in the Two Rivers, confirming that he is in fact Shadowspawn and that his men were run out of the Two Rivers. Galaad wonders if it is coincidence or something more that has led his army to Pairin now. Oratar and Bornhauld can confirm this as well as Pairin being at Fal'meh.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Gaul reports to Pairin that the Whitecloaks have Gill and the other refugees. The Lord Captain Commander is also present within the camp.



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Galaad in now determined to bring Pairin to justice.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin wonders if this being Ta'veren at work. Gaul confirms that their army is larger than the Whitecloaks.



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Galaad makes the choice to move against Pairin's army.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin is unsure what to do. He decides to send more scouts and properly investigate the camp and offer parley. However, he will not leave Gill and the others to the Whitecloaks.





Chapter 8. The Seven-Striped Lass.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Matrim Cauthon is in The Seven-Striped Lass. There Verin's letter to Mat, still unopened, is nagging Mat, along with the promise that bonds him to it. Mat whines to one of the barmaids, Melli Craeb about his situation. Melli says she will open it and then tell Mat what is inside. Mat believes this will still break his oath and is also a little reluctant about what it will tell him to do. Mat decides to leave. As Mat walks through Kaymlin he becomes concerned about street thugs accosting him at any minute due to the pictures of his face out there.  Mat also reflects on his murderous stay in Hinderstap.  He even heard of a Bubble of evil where the paving stones killed people. Mat finds a new tavern, The Dead Man's Breath and enters. Mat joins a group for a game of dice, while playing he overhears gossip that a man, Jowdry, was gruesomely murdered. The details were too horribly similar to the killings done by the gholam Mat had encountered in Ebou Dar for it to be a coincidence. Mat hastily exits the tavern. As he does, he notices one of the front-door toughs with a picture in his hands, most probably with Mat's face on it, talking to Bernherd the tavern-keeper. Mat wants to get back to camp, intent on retrieving Thom and prepare his men. He had sent word to Elayne Trakand about receiving an audience but no reply had been sent back. Mat is waiting for Verin Mathwin's thirty day requirement to run out before he moves on.  Mat realizes that he owes the gholam for the past murders of his men and Tylin. Mat picks up Thom, where he is performing and they return to camp. 

Thom and Mat return to the camp. Mat glances up at Kaymlin thinking back with his old memories. Several times he had tried to invade it before Andor was even a nation, and it was always a difficult fight. As they walk Thom tells Mat that Trollocs have begun invading the Borderlands. He then brings up the Tower of Ghenjai and confirms that Bayle Domon was correct with its location. Thom questions how they will get there and Mat tells him via gateway. Thom reminds him that Verin has gone missing and that he doesn't trust her, but Mat says he kind of likes her and is a good judge of character.  Thom suggests Mat takes guards with him when he travels the city, not for protection against the gholam, rather for all the thieves in the city. Halwin Norry had granted the Band of the Red Hand permission to camp just outside of Kaymlin. They are not allowed more than one hundred men in the city at any one time and must camp one league from the wall. Gufrin reports to Mat that the Eyes Sedai have arrived back to camp. Mat's camp had unified with Estean Andiama's section that had been sent ahead. Mat ponders Trollocs invading the Borderlands and realizes that they need the Dragons sooner rather than later. He eyes his camp and thinks of changes he can make to better protect it, thinking of the Battle of Marisin Valley. Mat thinks of the old memories in his head as his own now, and has paid for it with the scar around his neck.  As he is about to reach his tent Teslyn Baradon reaches him. Teslyn asks Mat if he had heard the rumors about the White Tower. Mat replies he has heard too many rumors, Teslyn agrees that caution in believing rumors is wise. She thanks Mat for rescuing her, admitting she is in his debt and will return to the White Tower with Joline Maza and Edesina Azzedin. Mat is surprised with her sincerity and offers her horses and provisions for their trip. Mat opens his tent flap and smells blood.





Chapter 9. Blood in the Air.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Matrim Cauthon ducks as something swings at him. He yells murder and rolls for his Ashandarei. He cuts a hole in the tent, leaps out and takes the Silver foxhead medallion off his neck and attaches it to the end of his spear. The Gholam steps out of the rip with the scar on its cheek.  Mat hopes that enough men will come so that it will draw to much attention and escape. The gholam tells him that the person who controls him now wants Mat dead badly.  Mat sees blood on its hand and attacks. Mat manages to burn the gholam's hand with the medallion. Mat yells at the gholam that it didn't need to kill Tylin, but the gholam retorts that it has to kill and will kill all Mat's friends including Tuon next. Teslyn arrives and pulls Mat out of the gholam's reach.  Teslyn begins throwing furniture at the gholam. Soldiers who have responded to Mat's call begin to arrive. The gholam gives Mat a glare and slips away, killing Gorderan and Fergin as it escapes. Mat can smell the blood in his tent and is panicked that the gholam has murdered Olver. Upon looking in his tent, Mat discovers that the gholam murdered Lopin, as well as two of the Band, Will Reeve and Riddem. He sets out to find Olver and discovers him sleeping safely in Noalle's tent. Noalle apologizes for letting Olver stay in his tent but Mat grabs Noalle and gives a hug, telling him he just saved Olver's life. 

Mat sits with Thom and Noalle in Thom's tent. Olver is now in Teslyn's. Mat tells the men that the gholam threatened Thom and Tuon. They wonder how the gholam has this information. Derry's body has just been found and they conclude that he must have been interrogated. Mat tells the men that they need to hunt down and destroy the gholam before it kills anyone else in its mission to slaughter Mat. Mat tells the men to continue preparing for the Tower of Ghenjai. He still has no word from Elayne Trakand and wants construction on the Dragons to begin. Mat decides to write a stronger letter to Elayne. Mat will now sleep in the city in a different inn each night. He will inform the Band of the Red Hand so that news of this will reach the gholam. Mat also wants Thom and Noalle with Olver to also stay in the city. Mat had left Tylin behind and now she was dead.  Noalle had heard the Eyes Sedai were planning to leave the camp. Joline Maza shrilly calls for Mat. Joline accepts that Mat was telling the truth about the gholam and "asks" for some horses off Mat. Mat accepts since he has given some to Teslyn. He then stalks off telling Joline he plans on using some choice words in his letter to Elayne.





Chapter 10. After the Taint.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra feels guilt over the capture of Basel Gill and the others. As he walks past Hu Barran and Darl Coplin, he smells regret, frustration and disappointment and a tinge of embarrassment coming from them. Pairin asks Jewr Grady if they could sneak into the camp to rescue the prisoners. Grady is confident that with the One Power they could pummel the Children of the Light camp. Pairin is reluctant to go in this direction. Pairin makes his way to the Eye’eel section of the camp, where he has received great ji for his attack on the Shaido. Grady detects something in the Wise Ones tents, so they walk to investigate. Fager Neald is there and confirms that they have manged to successfully Link. Neald states he feels complete now with the usage of both Saidar and Sai'deen. Pairin confirms that they will send their scouting to Kai'rienne (city) soon. Grady asks Pairin if he can visit his family at the Black Tower, to which Pairin says soon. Pairin notices that even the Asha'man were starting to see Pairin as their lord, rather than being so aloof when they first joined him. Grady tells Pairin that the taint has been cleansed. He also reveals that his father could also channel, and that the Red Ajah took him while he was a baby. Grady joined the Black Tower to fight for Rand until death or the madness took him. Now the taint has gone, Pairin realizes that instead of the Asha'man fighting for death, they now fight to live, and hence why they have finally integrated with everyone else. Dain is spotted riding towards Pairin's camp with the flag of peace. Bornhold tells Pairin the the Lord Captain Commander is waiting to speak with him. Pairin gathers the Asha'man and a few others to meet with the Whitecloaks. He meets them just a short distance from their camp. Pairin asks for the Whitecloaks prisoners. Galadedrid Dawmodred states that Pairin killed a couple of Children a few years back and is untrustworthy. Galaad demands to meet Pairin's army in battle. Pairin turns away without any comment.



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Galaad wanted to measure Pairin. He believes he has made the right decision to face Pairin in battle.





Chapter 11. An Unexpected Letter.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne Trakand is nonplussed at the letter she has received from Ellorien Traemane, in which Ellorien demands that Elayne release prisoners into Ellorien's care. The prisoners are high seats of Andoran houses who cannot afford to pay their ransoms after squandering their respective assets opposing Elayne in the succession of Andor.   

Die’lin Taravin mentions that the Windfinders are asking for their Andoran land Elayne promised them. Elayne dodges the question, instead deciding to focus on uniting the Andoran nobility behind her. She intends to seize Cairhienin and the Sun throne, suggesting that would unite the Andoran nobility either through intimidation or redirecting their attention. Die’lin and Birgitte Silverbow both disaprove of this plan. They suggest that it is too soon to attempt the seizure of another throne. Though Elayne's claim to the Sun throne is legitimate, Die’lin argues that seizing the throne might be perceived as Rand handing it to her, and worries that Elayne may overextend herself. Though she considers Die’lin's advice useful, she has already decided the Sun throne will be hers.  

Halwin Norry knocks at the door, arriving with interesting updates. First, Samwil Hark has tracked down where Duhara Basaheen has been staying in Andor. Elayne has thus far refused to accept Duhara as her Eyes Sedai advisor, as she was sent by Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan. Norry had her watched, in case she was a member of the Black Ajah. In addition, Norry highlights that Duhara likely had a hand in Ellorien's letter, as they have been meeting "secretly", and with increased frequency. He suggests that Duhara may be attempting to ingratiate herself to some of the Andoran nobility, to save face with Elaida. After pointed questions about Duhara's arrivals at the meetings, Elayne gently tells Norry that the meetings were actually quite blatant. Thus, she reasons that Duhara is likely meeting with Elayne's enemy on purpose and almost publicly to announce her displeasure at her rejection by Elayne.   

Norry's next order of business is the mercenary bands that have been drawn to Andor. Elayne cannot afford to pay them all, so she has set them up just outside the castle walls with the promise that she will "eventually" meet with them. Elayne intends to draw them into her armies for Tarmon Gai'don and after (if Rand won't survive). As a woman, she is terrified by these thoughts, though she is foremost a queen and must thus be hard.  Norry passes her over a more personal letter from one of the mercenary captains. It is from Matrim Cauthon, asking to meet with her, reminding her that he saved her pretty little backside in Tear. He is also asking for all her bellfounders. Elayne asks Norry to set up a meeting with her and Mat. Elayne plans to use Mat's Band, due to a number being native to Kai'rienne. She is determined to unite the two nations, due to the possible effects of Rand falling during the Last Battle. She then wishes to set up a meeting with Sumeko Karistovan and Alise Tenjile about the future of the Kin.  





Chapter 12. An Empty Ink Bottle.






Point of view: Min Farshaw.


Elmindreda Farshaw is sitting in the window of her room in Stone. Clouds above Tear are broken, after weeks, in a perfect circle. She can feel warmth coming through the bond. El'Nine'eev ti al'Meera Mandragoran is concerned where Rand is. Min states that Rand is fine. She felt Rand's pain, anger and despair through the bond, and then finally the radiation warmth. Nine'eev is worried with what Rand just about did to Tamlin al'Thor, and what he did at Natrin's Barrow. Min refuses to reveal where Rand is, saying he needs to be alone. She promises to find him if it takes too long.  Sarene Nemdahl arrives at Min's quarters and requests that both Min and Nine'eev visit Cadsuane Melaidhrin as Alanna Mosvani has gone missing.



Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin.


Corele Hovian tells everyone she felt no presence of Saidar being welded as they survey Alanna's room. It is assumed that Alanna has left Tear for some reason, having taken all her clothes and leaving a sheet of paper with red wax on it. Unfortunately the letter inside is missing and Cadsuane is concerned that Alanna can be used as a tool against Rand. Nine'eev tells everyone that Alanna should have been guarded, to which Cadsuane inwardly agrees. As Cadsuane drinks her tea, she notices that the tea doesn't taste bitter, but very tasty. Min gasps and turns stating Rand has arrived. Min's two Far Dareis Mai race off to tell the rest of the Eye’eel.





Chapter 13. For What Has Been Wrought.






Point of view: Min Farshaw.


Min Farshaw enters a courtyard in the Stone of Tear and spots Rand al'Thor, now wearing an old, long brown cloak   over his clothes. The bond between her and Rand seems to be warmer now. She notices that the air around him seems to be distorting around him due to his tahveeren nature and observes some new viewings floating around him. Rand looks at her and his eyes seem to be deeper, with new wrinkles around them. After worrying about losing Rand for good, he smiles at her for the first time in a very long while and his innocent youth shows through to her. After hugging each other Min tells Rand that Alanna Mosvani has vanished. He tells her he felt her go northwards in the direction of Arafel. She is worried the Shadow will use her to get to him, but he tells her that now the Shadow is looking at him round-the-clock, until he blinds it.

Rand turns to all the gathered Eye’eel and tells them he has toh. He promises to always take an escort of Far Dareis Mai with him from now on and states to Rhuarc that he will meet his toh. Rhuarc and the rest of the Eye’eel seem satisfied. Rand then sends Jahar Narishma to Far Madding to tell them that Rand accepts their terms and that he wishes to meet them. He then asks Darlin Sisnera to write a proclamation stating that Igwayne al'Veer has succeeded Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan as Amyrlin Seat. He then asks Darlin to marshal his forces and get them ready to move. He asks Damer Flinn to transport them when they are ready. He then asks for Davram Bashere to return to the city as he plans to take him and his force back to Arad Doman. He tasks Min on how he can use Callandor against the Dark One. He then lifts Cadsuane Melaidhrin's exile and even though she manipulated him, she still showed him that he is not a weapon. He then asks her to locate someone in the Caralain Grass.

Rand then assembles all the High Lords and Ladies of Tear and gets them to form a line. He walks down the line looking into each ones eyes. He reaches near the end where Weiramon Saniago stands. Weiramon seems to have great difficulty meeting Rand's eyes. Anaiyella Narencelona who is beside Weiramon also seems to share this problem. Rand exposes them as Darkfriends and sends them from the Stone. He sends Leeh and two other Maidens to shadow them. While this is happening Rand keeps scanning the courtyard looking for something. Tamlin al'Thor finally steps into the courtyard and catches Rand's attention. The crowd parts for Rand as he walks towards his father. The courtyard falls completely silent and Min feels Rand's shame and terror through the bond. Rand then reaches his father and grabs him in an embrace. The Dragon Reborn then begins to weep. Rand asks for forgiveness and Tam tells him that no one is perfect. Rand then brings Min forward and introduces her to Tam as some one very special to him.



Notes



↑ The one he exchanged with a Tuatha'an in Ebou Dar and wore on Dragonmount during reforging.






Chapter 14. A Vow.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer Setting: A calm meadow in Tel'aran'rhiod.




Igwayne takes a moment to relax in the World of Dreams in the first place she ever visited with the dream ter'angreal Verin Mathwin gave her. The storm above, the calm meadow below, combine to make Tel'aran'rhiod seem unnatural to her. She recalls the discovery of new food in the city after the Dragon Reborn's departure.



Setting: The Heart of the Stone of Tear in Tel'aran'rhiod




Bair and Amys smile at Igwayne's entrance and see their former pupil as the Amyrlin Seat when Amys places the Ahmerlin’s stole around her shoulders. The three dance around Igwayne's ultimate plan of binding all women to the White Tower by toying with the idea of sending Accepted to train with Eye’eel Wise Ones. Eventually, they move on to more serious matters, Rand's visit to the White Tower and his plan to open the bore. Amys promises to consult Rand about this issue, but expresses doubt about Igwayne's plan to gather the leaders of the world together to resist him.



Setting: Hall of the Tower in Tel'aran'rhiod


Igwayne plans to gather her strongest supporters, but expresses displeasure at Nine'eev's tardiness - again. Nine'eev sneaks up on Igwayne while she studies an alteration of the Rose Window constructed after the Shawn'chin attack. Nine'eev has been out of the loop for so long that she is shocked when Igwayne reveals that the Shawn'chin attacked. Knowing that the first moments between them will consist of a test of wills, Igwayne throws her off balance by asking for advice. Igwayne then uses Nine'eev's logic against her in order to gain her obedience.

A tinkling bell alerts the Amyrlin to another presence. Thinking it to be Elayne Trakand, the duo return to the Hall, only to find it empty. Elayne enters The World of Dreams a few moments later. Igwayne resets her wards after troubling information leads them to believe that someone is spying on their meeting. Igwayne and Nine'eev debate the merits of her returning to the White Tower over her keeping an eye on Rand. Igwayne suspects that Elayne bonded Rand when an odd comment causes the queen to blush. Nine'eev studies Elayne and confronts her about her pregnancy until Igwayne brings them back around to the main point of their meeting. After explaining Rand's plan, Igwayne is troubled by the lukewarm reception to her plans to stop him. She concludes that Nine'eev has been influenced by Rand's tahveeren nature. She orders both of them to return to the Tower in order to be fully raised to Eyes Sedai. Elayne's pregnancy gives her a reprieve, but Nine'eev eventually submits to the will of the Mother and eases Igwayne's worry about the Testing, as she already knows the one hundred weaves.

Igwayne orders Elayne to craft more ter'angreal, leading to the revelation of how Sheriam stole them for the Black Ajah. Before relaying this event, an intruder trigger's Igwayne's alarm. Igwayne moves with the speed of thought and comes face to face with Talva, a Black Sister. Igwayne shielded her and trapped her in air before another intruder makes a sound from behind. Moving as fast as thought, Igwayne dodges an attack from Alviarin. The fire from Alviarin consumes Talva. Alviarin flees before Igwayne can catch her. Igwayne vows to catch Mesaana and complete her cleansing of the White Tower.





Chapter 15. Use a Pebble.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev and Naeff race to the All Summer's neighborhood in Tear where a Bubble of evil has struck. She thinks about the terrible storm to the north, where LAN is. Nine'eev no longer feels discomfort around the Asha'man since she helped cleanse the Taint. The madness no longer spreads within male channellers, but the scars remain. Naeff's madness causes hallucinations of Myrrdraal which he incorrectly believes is a Talent.

Defenders circle a portion of the city appearing, "blander than it should.  Washed out." Paving stones crumble to powder when walked upon. An inn of people are revealed to be lifeless husks that also crumble to powder. The bubble of evil sucked away all signs of life. The duo use flows of air to blow through the remaining buildings, searching for any survivors. They gather the powder into a pile. Nine'eev channels fire at the powder, creating a giant flash that could have torched the entire city if they hadn't gathered it together.

Frustrated at the failure to find no one alive, Nine'eev delves the Asha'man and finds the madness infecting his brain. She hypothesizes that the Dark One's madness resembles Compulsion. It takes a lot of her energy, but Nine'eev heals Naeff's madness. With tears in his eyes, he runs to find his Eyes Sedai.

The clouds break, announcing Rand's return. Nine'eev comforts people who witnessed the bubble of evil when Rand finds her. She wonders why he still wears this old coat . Rand blames himself for this bubble saying that the longer he postpones the Last Battle, the more such events will come and the stronger the Dark One will be. After debating the merits of his plan to open the bore before resealing it, Nine'eev begins to believe in the plan. She states that she must return to the Tower, where she can try to persuade Igwayne of this. Rand is saddened but asks her to return to him, to at least be there when he goes to Shay'ole Ghoul. He trusts her to be one of the duo in the circle when he uses Callandor and suggests either Elayne or Aviendha as the other. She is proud of the honor Rand shows her and promises to be there. Rand warns her that the Tower could destroy her personality which is valuable. He suggests her not to become a perfect "emotionless" Eyes Sedai. Then she inspects his madness, and is amazed at the thousands upon thousands of the tiny black thorns pricked into his brain, but beneath them was a brilliant white lacing of something. She does not even know where to begin and admits as much to Rand. He is amazed at her ability, claiming that not even the greatest Healers of the Age of Legends could Heal diseases of the mind with the One Power. She promises to Heal the other Asha'man in Tear before reporting to the White Tower, but she doesn't commit to heading to the Black Tower. Rand agrees as he tells her that something is wrong there. Nine'eev leaves, but not before giving Rand a hug.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne stands at the apex of the White Tower and watches the clouds return over Tar Vawlyn. She meets with three sitters who began the hunt for the Black Ajah. They discuss plausible theories that may have allowed Mesaana to defeat the Oath Rod during the Great Purge. They also touch on her history in order to plan a way to defeat her.



Notes



↑ This is still the one he exchanged with a Tuatha'an in Ebou Dar and wore on Dragonmount during reforging.






Chapter 16. Towers of Midnight/Chapter 16.






Point of view: Faile Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra's scouts were sent to Kai'rienne today. Pairin sent a number of letters to the Children of the Light for a formal parley and the Whitecloaks replied insisting on battle instead. Faile was not impressed that Pairin had met the Whitecloaks without her. Pairin still had a hope that he could sneak his people out of the Whitecloak camp. Faile had run away from Saldaea to become a Hunter of the Horn, neglecting her duties to her estate as the eldest. She ran away due to the inevitability of what she would become. Faile walks through the camp making a mental note of all the duties that need to be done. There is so much more than just soldiers in an army. The supply ring where all food is prepared is about the size of a village by itself. This is where a number of families who had begged to join when they were starving, now live. Through her mother Deira ni Ghaline t'Bashere's teachings, Faile has become quite competent in running the administrative duties of the camp. Faile stops by Bavin Rockshaw's pavilion, who is the quartermaster of the camp. Faile subtly intimidates Bavin about his unequitable distribution of supplies. She knows he sends Torven Rikshan's camp their dinner an hour before all the other camps. She feints worry that these "irregularities" may reach Pairin's ears. Even though it is unlikely he would do anything, she led the camp to believe Pairin had a terrible rage against injustices against his people. Faile had been worried about being trapped for life, but she found working with Pairin very fulfilling. 



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin stands on the edge of the camp searching for wolves with his mind. The wolves tend to stay away from large companies of men. He hears Faile approach him. Pairin is racked by guilt for Basel Gill and the others being captured and that he would not give himself up for them, if the Children of the Light had asked. Faile argues that he is becoming a leader. Pairin wished he had stayed in the Two Rivers, but again Faile reminds him that even that is now changing, after the battle with Trollocs and all the refugees that have moved in. Pairin just wants to be left alone, but again Faile tells him that the Two Rivers men want him as their Lord and that if not him, who would lead them? 

Faile tells Pairin she was searching for him to celebrate Shanna'har together. Faile's servants layout out blanket with candles for an intimate meal for the couple. Faile asks him to relax for one evening just to be together. Pairin concedes. Pairin tears into the meal, like a young wolf. She knows the wolf is a part of him. But he reveals his shame, embarrassment, and fear about how far he fell to rescue Faile. He fears losing control out of weakness if she were kidnapped again. She points out the weaknesses of many great Saldaean leaders. Despite his view that he'd led the camp poorly during her captivity, she reframes it as single-mindedness on finding her. Pairin brings up the rumours about Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron, but Faile promises that she will deal with Berelain when the time is right. Faile brings up raising the wolfhead banner, but Pairin refuses to accept this mantle until he can control the wolf within him and avoid Noam's feral descent. Faile asks why is so dead set against being a leader, and he tells her the full story of when he killed the two Whitecloaks, how his inner wolf comes out and how he is afraid he may end up like Noam. He concludes with Hopper and his wolf dreams. 

She tells him about her captivity at Malden. Pairin knows she has left out some parts and surmises the complicated relationship with Rolan, but doesn't mind. Pairin apologies for ruining her plans for escaping Malden and she leaves it be, rather than having an out-loud argument. Faile reminds Pairin that they are to be left completely alone, and Pairin is happy and relieved that the awkward barrier between them is now reconciled.





Chapter 17. Partings, and a Meeting.






Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Matrim Cauthon wakes up under a wagon. He chooses a random location with the dice each night to avoid another encounter with the Gholam. Mat goes searching for Aludra. Jeweleen Sandar finds Mat and asks if he and Amathera Aelfdene Casmir Lounault can leave with the Eyes Sedai, on their way back to Tar Vawlyn. Mat says he doesn't need his permission and Jeweleen decides it is time to move on. Bethamin Zeami and Seta sit with Joline Maza. They are also leaving with the Eyes Sedai. Seta addresses Mat as "Highness." The two former Sul'dam cannot stay because their knowledge that sul'dam can be leashed as damane puts the whole Shawn'chin Empire at risk. Mat reminds them that Tuon is also sul'dam. Mat charges the two sul'dam to learn how to channel, so they can try and fix this issue without the Empire collapsing. Both woman take pride and gain confidence from Mat's words. Egeanin Tamarath and Bayle Domon also decide to leave Mat's company and travel to the White Tower. Mat gives all those who are departing horses to travel on. Finally he makes his way over to the Eyes Sedai. He gives Joline Maza some sweetbuns as a parting gift and tells her that some of his men will travel with them. They will bring the horses back to him once they reach Tar Vawlyn. Mat also asks Teslyn Baradon to give the Amyrlin Seat a message from him, that it is just about time for them to return that which belongs to him. Teslyn accepts and tells Mat that Setalle Anan is remaining behind. Mat waves goodbye to the group as they make their way back to Tar Vawlyn. Chel Vanin is also one of the Redarms sent, with the intent of picking up information from the countryside and Tar Vawlyn. As the group move off, Thom asks Mat on the sweetbuns gift. Mat reveals that they contain Sprinklewort and will dye her mouth blue for at least 2 weeks.

Mat finds Mistress Anan in the supply tents overseeing the midday meal. She scolds Mat for looking so unkempt. Mat finds himself missing Tuon, as she would often be in Mistress Anan's company. Mat asks Mistress Anan if she would look after Olver, as he is planning to leave with Thom soon. She agrees to watch Olver and informs Mat that she's already begun teaching Olver his letters. Mat tells her that he will find a room in an inn for her and Olver, while he deals with the gholam. Setalle asks if the Eyes Sedai have gone and looks regretful when Mat confirms this. Mat apologizes to her for what happened in the past and Setalle replies that she needs to move on and forget that past chapter of her life.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne Trakand strolls through the Sunrise Garden where she had first met Rand all those years ago. Her pregnancy is just starting to show. Plants throughout the garden are wilting and dying already, sure signs of Tarmon Gai'don. Birgitte Silverbow warns Elayne about being exposed and vulnerable in the gardens, but Elayne is over-confident that she is safe due to Elmindreda Farshaw's viewing. Birgitte argues that the babies will be safe, not the mother. Elayne could suffer a traumatic head injury or amputation, but Elayne just brushes it off. Elayne is met by Sumeko Karistovan and Alise Tenjile, both Kinswomen became more confident during recent events. Elayne offers the Kin who do not wish to go to the White Tower to stay in Andor for free under the condition that they would provide Gateways and Healing. They would not fight in any wars for the Crown, but they would create gateways to where the Crown wished to go and Heal those who are sick or wounded. Alise insists that the Kin would receive half the payment the Crown would get for offering these services to people like merchants who would be able to move their wares much more quickly. Elayne denies any payment on Healing, as it would be a free service offered to all those who need it, in order of severity. Alise agrees to the terms, but Sumeko chides Alise, as she can't speak for the whole of the Kin. Alise replies that she is only accepting it for herself and everyone else will have to make their own decision. For example, Sumeko plans to join the White Tower and join the Yellow Ajah once she is raised to a full Eyes Sedai. Elayne suggests rewriting the Rule all over again, allowing the Kin to marry. This would make them seem like less of a threat to the White Tower as it would tie them down. Elayne promises to talk to the Amyrlin Seat about these changes. After the meeting, Elayne ruminates over the Shawn'chin's likely strike against Andor after the Last Battle. She needs to be prepared for this possibility and the threat they will learn Traveling. Unfortunately the Kin will not channel in battle, so she is still missing an edge against the Shawn'chin. Although, the Black Tower is within Kaymlin, she has not considered their involvement deeply yet.





Chapter 18. The Strength of This Place.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra hunts in the wolf dream. He searches the Children of the Light's camp, looking for anything that his scouts may have missed. He eventually reaches the command tent and searches it, looking for some clue as to who his foe is. Pairin is frustrated at himself for not using this method in Malden. He then spots Hopper watching him. Pairin tells the wolf that he is ready to learn now. Hopper asks him to follow him and sends an image of Emmond's Field. One of the poles still flies the wolfhead banner. Hopper tells Pairin that he cannot come here to strongly, as this is not his natural den. Pairin must always remember who he is and the strength of the wolf dream comes from within him. Hopper jumps at Pairin, to try and knock him out of the dream, but Pairin is prepared and knocks Hopper back to the ground. Hopper is pleased. Hopper shifts to another place and Pairin follows. Again Hopper attempts to knock Pairin from the dream, but Pairin manages to remember where he is and stay in the dream. They shift somewhere else and this time Hopper sends a mental assault at Pairin, which he again resists. The two then go running along the landscape together. They suddenly reach a violet dome. Hopper sends to Pairin that this is wrong and shouldn't be here. The wall suddenly disappears. The two continue their training.



Point of view: Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day.


Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day is in the middle of a battle with Trollocs. Ee'two'rahl'day and his men hold the hill-fort above Maradon. They are engaged with a group of Trollocs that have created rafts and crossed the River Arinelle. Ee'two'rahl'day calls for more archers, who fire upon the Trollocs as they try to surge up the hill. He charges Lidrin and his archers to go to one of the towers and keep it from being over-run. Ee'two'rahl'day has his camp perched around the fortifications, but so far has had no help from any of the Saldaean forces inside Maradon. Suddenly Trolloc bodies start raining down on the camp. The Trollocs had resorted to tossing bodies from their trebuchets in order to attack the fortifications. Ee'two'rahl'day calls for the Asha'man. He had pushed them hard at the start of the siege, but now holds them back for when the Trollocs come to close. A report comes back that the Shadowspawn army has 16 trebuchets. Rajabi arrives to take command of the upper camp. Ee'two'rahl'day hangs onto the promise that Rand gave him, that Arad Doman would be protected from the Shawn'chin and that he would provide help. Rajabi had lost a leg to the fighting, but had refused to leave the army. Ee'two'rahl'day realizes that they are going to have to retreat back to the direction of Arad Doman. The Saldaeans had considered Ee'two'rahl'day's army foreign and refused to let them retreat to within Maradon. Trolloc bodies continue to pummel the camp. Ee'two'rahl'day looks to the sky and realizes that their are too many bodies being thrown in the next wave. He screams for archers as Draghkar are hiding among the bodies, but it is too late. The Draghkar attack the army. One tries to seduce Ee'two'rahl'day with its song, but he is screaming so loud he can't actually hear the song. He pretends to be ensured and then kills it at the last minute. Ee'two'rahl'day spots Rajabi fall to the Draghkar. Then balls of fire start hitting the Draghkar, indicating the Asha'man have joined the battle. The Trolloc horde at the bottom of the hill make another surge up the hill at the same time. Ee'two'rahl'day can't help but keep thinking about the Dragons promise to send more help.



Point of view: Faile Eyebarra.


Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra strolls through the camp pondering all the recent developments. Pairin had sent one last parley to the Whitecloaks, and the scouts had returned from Kai'rienne (city). Faile makes her way to the Mayene section of the camp to confront Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron. The guards let her enter, as Berelain has been expecting the meeting. Faile knows that Berelain didn't sleep with Pairin while Faile was in captivity. Her purpose to today's meeting is that the men in the camp presume that the two did sleep together and that Berelain has done nothing to squash the rumors. Berelain counters that many monarchs have overcome such rumors. Faile retorts that Saldaea and the Two Rivers have higher expectations of their Lords. All these rumors are affecting Pairin and Faile states that Berelain does not know Pairin very well at all if she believes otherwise. Faile then offers Berelain a challenge which would be a fight to the death to clear Pairin's name. Berelain asks if they could negotiate other terms such as she and her men leaving the camp for good. Faile tells her this will do nothing to prevent the rumors, and Berelain replies that neither would one of them dying in a fight. Faile then charges Berelain with a way of destroying all the rumors. Berelain comes up with a plan. The two women would act as friends and be seen around the camp together. Faile adds that Berelain would need to find a new man as well.





Chapter 19. Talk of Dragons.






Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Matrim Cauthon makes his way through the camp to meet with Elayne Trakand. Olver catches up with Mat and asks if they can travel into town together and plan on how to defeat the Finn. Mat promises to catch up with him tomorrow night. Mat then makes his way to Tahlmahness Delovinde, Thom and their Redarms escort. Thom has completely changed his outfit to become that of a court bard. Tahlmahness believes Mat should dress better but Mat tells them he is not nobility. Thom reminds Mat that he is now married to the Shawn'chin Empress and is now in fact nobility. As the group make their way to Kaymlin, Mat counts at least ten thousand mercenaries camped around the area. The Band are the largest single mercenary group and their reputation has spread to all the other camps. Mat is met by Charlz Guybon at the palace, who then escorts the men to Elayne. As they make their way, Guybon asks Mat about all the rumors about him; such as hanging from a tree and never losing at dice. There are even rumors about him killing a Forsaken. Mat tells Guybon that he killed Couladin, but it wasn't in some heroic duel. Guybon also quizzes him on the rumor about him entering deaths domain to ask questions and was given the Ashandarei. Mat is uncomfortable with this one as it is a little to close to the truth. They arrive at Elayne's chamber and both Mat and Thom enter. Mat enters expecting to be told off and instead Elayne leaps up and gives Thom a huge hug. Elayne apologizes to Mat for making him wait so long and offers him to bring his Band closer to the city. Mat declines. Thom inquires about the child and Elayne corrects him with children. Mat is shocked, especially when he finds out the Rand is the father. Thom relays all their adventures since the departed each others company in Ebou Dar. Mat cuts off Thom before he can talk about the marriage part and asks if Elayne has seen Verin Mathwin. Elayne has not. 

Mat then brings out Aludras paper and asks if he can have all three bellfounders in the city, some powders and lots of metal. Mat describes the shape of a cannon, which he calls Dragons. Elayne doesn't understand the purpose but Birgitte Silverbow realizes that they are used to launch at the enemies army. Mat believes that with fifty Dragons, he could knock down Kaymlin's walls. Mat then describes how they could be modified to destroy ranks of Trollocs. Elayne is ecstatic with the idea, believing this is what she needed. Elayne plans to put the bellfounders straight to work. Mat is surprised this has worked out so well until Elayne states that these dragons will be used for Andor and not just the Band. They begin to negotiate the ownership of them, as Mat does not want them solely owned by Andor and is concerned about what will happen if his Shawn'chin ties are discovered. They finally reach the following conditions:



Elayne gets a one-year contract of the Band at the rate they were being paid in Murandy.
When the Band leave, they get to keep one out of every four dragons.
Elayne will provide Mat with a new serving man.
Elayne gets to hold onto Mat's medallion, which she will try and replicate, for three days.


Mat tells Elayne that the Gholam may be in town. Elayne wants the Band to work for her straight away, as she is planning to Travel to Kai'rienne to take the Sun Throne. Mat adds two last conditions, that the Band fight where Rand wants in Tarmon Gai'don and that Aludra is the supervisor of the dragons. They finally come to a Deal. Elayne hints that the Band may have been needed to be used against Pairin Eyebarra and the Two Rivers. Elayne asks the two men to meet with her for dinner. She then asks Thom to become Kaymlin's court-bard. Thom promises to think about it. As they are about to leave, Elayne offers to buy Mat a new coat. As they leave, Thom reveals that he has been pardoned for crimes he may have committed in both Andor and Kai'rienne. Thom then offers to get Mat a new coat.





Chapter 20. A Choice.






Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.

Rosil instructs Nine'eev al'Meera on non-spoken rules of the ceremony as they walk towards the test Nine'eev will take to determine if she is worthy to be an Eyes Sedai. She instructs Nine'eev to move her ring to the position where an Accepted would keep theirs. Nine'eev refuses, insisting that it would undermine the Ahmerlin’s earlier declaration that she was already Eyes Sedai. Nine'eev arrives in the testing room, where she notices the large Oval ring ter'angreal used for the testing. She also notices that the testers were all Sitters, which is unusual of a typical Eyes Sedai raising ceremony. The testers are Syreen Asnobar, Seaine Herimon, Rubinde Yukiri, Barasine, Lelaine Akashi and Romanda Cassin. Igwayne al'Veer is also there, however, she has no say in whether Nine'eev is raised or not.

Nine'eev breaks ceremony by changing the proper responses slightly to fit with the fact that she has already been raised to Eyes Sedai, which earns gasps from many of the testers. A weave is placed upon Nine'eev to allow her to remember the basic rules of the ceremony while she is in the ter'angreal. She removes her clothes so she wears only bare skin and enters into the ter'angreal. She doesn't remember why she is there, and blushes at the fact that she is naked. She takes a robe from a clothes line and puts it on. Suddenly, there is an earthquake. She walks over to the point where she must channel the proper weave in order to move on and walks through the gateway.

She again doesn't remember why she is where she is. She is in a cave. She walks out of the cave to see that she is in the Eye’eel Waste. The heat pounds on her, when when she notices Trollocs coming. They look strange to her, unlike ones she had seen before. She is irritated that she is forced to keep walking, not being able to run. She reaches the point where she can channel, and splits her weaves into fire to fend off the Trollocs and other weaves to create the gateway. She completes the required weave and walks through the gateway. She completes her forty-seventh weave. She is exhausted. She is irritated at whoever is doing something to her. She makes it through another room that contains a swarm of flies. In the next room, there are sick children she is forced to ignore. It hurts her to have to do it. The next rooms were even worse. She was forced to leave people to be drowned, beheaded, and buried alive.

She enters a scenario where she is forced to abandon the Two Rivers folk in order to properly proceed. She, however, decides that she is tired of all these stupid rules. She channels in order to aid the Two Rivers folk, with a bit of difficulty embracing the Source. She then moves on. After completing ninety-nine weaves, she enters the final room she must clear. In it LAN is being attacked by Darkhounds. Nine'eev uses balefire on the Darkhounds and tells LAN to run with her through the gateway. She runs through the gateway and passes back out of the ter'angreal and curls up onto the floor and is in tears.

She is healed and Syreen demands an explanation of why Nine'eev was put through such difficult tests. Rubinde replies that it was to test her properly. Barasine states that Nine'eev has failed. Nine'eev is shocked. Barasine replies that Nine'eev did not show proper decorum. Nine'eev states that she only acted as she felt right and kept a cool head throughout, which is all that should be required of an Eyes Sedai. The Eyes Sedai discuss the testing while Nine'eev sits in a corner.  Igwayne explains that Nine'eev shouldn't have been able to break the rules of the test. She believes that Nine'eev was only able to due to her experience with Tel'aran'rhiod. Nine'eev deduces that Igwayne was responsible for the Two Rivers portion of the test. Nine'eev realizes that she would rather keep LAN alive than be an Eyes Sedai, if forced to choose between the two.

Nine'eev explains to Igwayne that because most Eyes Sedai don't marry, they detach themselves from the world and become arrogant. The Eyes Sedai finish their discussion and walk towards Nine'eev. Syreen demands that Nine'eev swear on the Oath Rod to never use balefire again. Nine'eev refuses, stating that it would be foolish to make a promise like that because she may need it when she goes to Shay'ole Ghoul with Rand. Others are surpised that Rand promissed her this. Igwayne suggests it would be counterproductive to let a woman who achieved so much as Nine'eev did (defeating  Moghedien, participating in cleansing of siedeen, new weaves) to fail the test and some agree. Four sitters vote to raise her, and three vote to not raise her. She passes her raising, barely. Before continuing on with the ceremony she wishes to do something first. She Travels to the ground outside the Black Tower and enters the tent belong to Myrelle Berengari. She demands that Myrelle transfer LAN's bond to her. Myrelle does so and retreats back into her tent. Naynaeve now feels LAN's emotions and knows he is still alive.





Chapter 21. An Open Gate.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Seonid Traighan reports back to the leaders of Pairin Aybaras camp about their scouting trip to Kai'rienne (city). Seonid's report includes: Elayne Trakand securing the Andoran Throne but has yet to move on Kai'rienne. Rand linked to being in Arad Doman to try and stabilize it with the Eye’eel. Edarra confirms this. Pairin struggles to focus on what is being said, instead thinking about the wolf dream and the violet wall he found within it. Seonid continues; Tear is readying for war and is now lead by King Darlin Sisnera. Pairin intends to meet with Elayne, but Seonid is concerned about that due to the Two Rivers folks flying the flag of Manetheren. Seonid also talks about the every expanding Shawn'chin army. They seem to have halted at theAlmoth Plains, due to pitched battles. Annoura Larisen believes peace needs to be made with the Shawn'chin. Edarra states that to many Eye’eel have been taken captive. If they are not released within a year and a day, then the Eye’eel plan to engage them in war . Seonid continues that Far Dareis Mai have been sent on to Andor, to continue gathering rumors. Pairin is surprised by this and Edarra tells him that he doesn't control Eye’eel. Seonid tells everyone that one of the Forsaken was said to have been in Andor. Pairin confirms it was Rahvin masquerading as Lord Gaebril. Suddenly a tray of porcelain is dropped by Morgays Trakand. She is completely shocked when she hears the news and has to leave the tent. Seonid finishes her report. Pairin decides they need to deal with the Children of the Light first, then meet with Elayne. Pairin asks of Jewr Gradys health. Both Asha'man have recovered from their sickness. Pairin charges Grady to send back any refugees who want to go home, via Gateway. Many have decided to join the ranks of the army, including many of the previous Gai'shain. Pairin finally decides to fight the Whitecloaks and asks Sebban Balwer to write a letter asking where they want the battle to take place. The meeting breaks up and everyone heads back to their quarters. Balwer speaks to Pairin privately afterwards. He tells Pairin that Rand has tried to make peace with the Shawn'chin. He also submits a picture of both Pairin and Matrim Cauthon that a large number of the lower element in Kai'rienne seem to have on them. Balwer says a large sum of money has been promised for the two men's corpses. Pairin is impressed with Balwers work and asked for who he worked for. Balwer would only say he was murdered by the Whitecloaks. Pairin offers to pay Balwer more, but Balwer is happy being paid as a simple secretary. Besides, tracking down what certain people have being paid has helped root out spies for Balwer in the past. Balwer is happy working for Pairin.



Point of view: Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day.


In Saldaea the Trollocs final take the hill with the fortifications on it. Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day had ordered the evacuation of the camp and he and his men now hold the bottom slope of the hill. The army holds the Trollocs at bay with pikemen and Ee'two'rahl'day plans to sound a full retreat behind Maradon, by using the Asha'man to bombard the Trolloc horde as the army retreats. Lidrin, having gone battle-mad, leads a group of pikemen in towards the Trolloc army, ignoring Ee'two'rahl'day's orders. Lidrin falls creating a hole in the defenses. The Trollocs spot the hole and start surging towards it. Ee'two'rahl'day himself, with his bodyguards ride to the hole to try and get his forces to line up again. Ee'two'rahl'day's bodyguards start falling to the Trollocs, but Ee'two'rahl'day is determined to not let the line completely break. Suddenly trumpets retreat trumpets sound . Other trumpets start to sound, but not all meaning half the pikemen are retreating while others still hold their position. In desperation Ee'two'rahl'day orders the cavalry to hit the eastern flank of the Shadowspawn army, while the Asha'man are free to engage the Trollocs at the front. Myrddraal join the carnage, taking down the few pockets of resistance that still stand while Draghkar rain down from the sky. The Asha'mans fireballs are severely reduced in size and strength. Ee'two'rahl'day spots smoke to the north, meaning Tymoth had managed to burn down the siege equipment. Ee'two'rahl'day's mount is killed, and he breaks his leg on the fall. Ee'two'rahl'day watches as a Myrddraal stalks towards him, knowing death approaches and hears thunder. The Saldaeans for Maradon have finally joined the fight. Several arrows slay the Myrddraal in front of Ee'two'rahl'day. Ee'two'rahl'day watches as the Saldaean cavalry crashes into the Trolloc army. He looks back to see the gate of Maradon open and his men retreating through its open gate. The Asha'man have manned the walls, and are firing fireballs from up high. More Trollocs are storming from the fortifications, but the Saldaeans have given Ee'two'rahl'day and his men time to retreat into the town. Yoeli approaches and offers to take Ee'two'rahl'day back into the town. Ee'two'rahl'day is thankful but asks what took him so long. Yoeli replies cryptically that this may have cost him his life.



Point of view: Morgays Trakand.


Morgays stumbles through the camp like in a dream. She finds a quiet spot and reflects on the men who have manipulated her during her life. Taringail Dawmodred, who had worked to undermine Morgays and had all but usurped her power until he met with a hunting accident. Rahvin one of the Forsaken and Eamon Valda most recently. Martyn Tallanvor approaches and informs Morgays that he will be going to Tear to fight for the king there. Tallanvor bemoans his fate and that he is destined to always love Morgays but will never have her. Morgays tells him that Gaebril was Rahvin. Tallanvor is shocked. She tells Tallanvor that she never loved Gaebril but was under Compulsion. Morgays asks Tallanvor to remain a little longer while she sorts through her feelings.





Chapter 22. The End of a Legend.






Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Gawyn Trakand is walking around the White Tower grounds on a cold summer night,  taking a "midnight lunch," as he has been restless since Igwayne al'Veer ordered him to stop guarding her door at night. His mind is still on the recent murders of Eyes Sedai, though the killings have stopped since the last White sister died.

Passing into the Tower through a servant's entrance, Gawyn hears off-duty members of the Tower Guard socializing and sees them dicing late at night. He does a double-take at the door as he recognizes Mazone, Celark and Zang, as part of nearly a dozen Younglings in the room.  He admonishes the Younglings, who still pay him the respect of a commander, for their behavior being unlike a Warder and thus endangering their chances of being bonded by an Eyes Sedai. Celark informs him that some Younglings have reconsidered becoming a Warder, but this change in their purpose has made them uncomfortable. Gawyn reassures Celark by saying he will personally speak to the captain of the Tower Guard, Jimar Chubain, about having some Younglings join those ranks. Celark presses Gawyn about joining the Tower Guard with them, but Gawyn declines.

Gawyn continues to feel pulled to Igwayne's room, walking unconsciously there again, then turns back to visit Gareth Bryne in his room, where Gawyn notes Bryne's methodical planning in the papers around his room. Gawyn seeks advice from Bryne on Igwayne's order that Gawyn not protect her. Bryne pulls out that Gawyn is single-minded in his focus on Igwayne, acting impulsively, driven about by passion. Bryne recommends Gawyn figure out his goals as an individual, aside from his romantic pursuits. When Sewan Sawnchay interrupts the conversation, she chastizes Bryne for staying up too late and Gawyn for telling the Amyrlin what she should do.

Leaving Bryne's room, Gawyn finds himself drawn back to Igwayne's door where the sound of footsteps causes him to investigate. He follows the sound and sees a large shadow that suddenly moves. From the shadow, an impossible to see figure throws a knife right at Gawyn's heart, but he dodges it just in time. The would-be assassin flees and Gawyn loses sight of him. Gawyn knows now to look at the darkness and finds the assassin again in a shadow, prompting a desparate fight of knife versus Gawyn's sword.

Neither of the fighters are having success besting each other, so the assassin breaks free from the fight and runs away down a hallway. Tower Guards have arrived by this time, so Gawyn goes back to the Ahmerlin’s room to check on her, triggering and entangling himself in all of the traps she has set. Igwayne steps forward, fully dressed and visibly displeased.



Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Mat is visiting several taverns and inns in Low Kaymlin. He is somewhat disguised, and has been paying coppers and free drinks for rumors about himself and the Band of the Red Hand. A man named Chet names him the Prince of the Ravens and Lord of Luck (not knowing he was naming the man in front of him). Elayne still has Mat's Foxhead medallion, leaving Mat defenseless to the Gholam. He meets up with Thom and Noalle and the three men discuss the Tower of Ghenjai and the Aelfinn, comparing the rhyme from the game Snakes and Foxes to their preparation to rescue Mworane. Their preparations include the following:



Fire to blind  - lanterns, torches, and fireworks from Aludra
Music to dazzle - harp, flute, hand drums and cymbals
Iron to bind - fully iron throwing knives, short swords, chains and a clip for the Ashandarei


It grows late and Thom and Noalle depart for the Band's camp, leaving Mat alone in a disreputable area. As he walks, he thinks about the letter in his pocket and the dice rolling in his head. He wanders into the New City, thinking of Mworane, Pairin, Rand, Tuon, and Birgitte. Mat wanders into the Inner City and comes upon a robbery. He rescues a short man from cutpurses only to be turned on as the would-be victim tries to stab Mat through. Mat finds a picture of his own face amidst some coins in the man's purse.



Point of view: Birgitte.


Birgitte Silverbow watches a play in the royal court. She reflects on all the lives she has lived, but this time with no Gaidal Cain. Birgitte is frustrated with trying to protect Elayne Trakand, when she has no regard for her life. She also has huge respect for Elayne as a Queen however, looking at Ellorien Traemane who is present, rather than being in chains. Kaila Bent approaches Birgitte telling her that there is a disturbance at the Plum Gate. 

Birgitte goes to investigate. She reaches the guard-post where an intruder is being kept. The intruder is currently dicing with all the guards on duty. Birgitte recognizes Mat is the intruder and takes him into her custody. One of the guards asks if he is the Raven Prince, which Mat flinches at. 

The two search for a tavern to grab an ale. Mat wants to ask her questions on the Tower of Ghenjai. Birgitte is reluctant to say anything about it, warning him to stay away. She tells him that going through the portals protects you with treaties, but restricts you from what you can do. Mat points out that Birgitte knows another way in. She responds that then the treaties are not in affect and that the Finn can draw blood. She asks how Mat was hanged, having knowledge on all the different memories Mat has. Birgitte tells him that the Finn will find a way to win, and that shedding blood can have a strange effect. 

Mat says they plan to cheat with iron, fire and music. 

Birgitte replies that it's not cheating as everyone carries these things and it the chances of success are probably one in a thousand. 

Mat throws all his coins up calling heads. Every coin lands on the table with heads. Mat says he can beat the odds. Birgitte tells Mat she has been inside the Tower to save Gaidal. He had a terrible head wound that affected his thinking. Birgitte took him to the Tower to try and get Healed. Mat asks how they got out. They never did, they died in the Tower. 

Birgitte drinks goats milk during the story as she is worried her drinking may effect Elayne's babies. Mat wants help from her. Birgitte tells him that iron hurts them, fire scares and kill them and music entrances them. However they become less effective with time. 

Both the Aelfinn and the Eelfinn work together and will be present in the Tower. She continues telling Mat that they feed on emotion, particularly those with the One Power. Birgitte says that the world is like a labyrinth and that he needs to make for the grand hall. 

She got there by leaving iron powder at intersections as they can't touch it. Once she got to the grand hall, they ask for something very dear to you. Birgitte asks Mat if he has ever heard the story, but Mat admits its not familiar. Birgitte got lost in the Tower, she couldn't find her dust, her fire was running out and her bowstring and lyre broken. Gaidal was carried behind her in a litter. Birgitte admits she was in there for over two months. 

She tells Mat that you could walk for days going straight never turning, not knowing that the grand hall is moments away. Mat asks how the story got out as she died inside there. Birgitte isn't sure but she was called Jethari Moondancer at the time. She is disappointed that that particular legend is forgotten and no longer told. 

Suddenly she feels pain through the Bond and knows Elayne is in trouble. Both Mat and Birgitte run to Elayne.





Chapter 23. Foxheads.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne Trakand sits in the hall trying to work out what Matrim Cauthon's Silver foxhead medallion is made of. She is semi listening to "The Death of Princess Walishen", which is Ellorien Traemane's favorite ballad. Elayne invited Ellorien here for this purpose. Elayne has managed to duplicate the silver foxhead but the copies were imperfect. She can channel while holding the original. Not so with the copies, nor could the copies disrupt more powerful weaves. Elayne believes that the shape is not important but the amount of silver used. She decides to give the copies to Birgitte Silverbow and her other guardswoman as they can't channel. After the play Elayne retires to a nearby sitting room where she meets with Ellorien and Sylvase Caeren. Sylvase asks Elayne how her secretary, Jaq Lounalt, is serving Elayne. The Black Ajah captives have clammed up as they are expecting to be executed once they reach the White Tower. However, Elayne is unwilling to give the secretary the green light to start torturing the prisoners in order to get any useful information out of them. Elayne also realizes that the Black Ajah have some kind of oath preventing them from revealing anything anyway. Ellorien demands to know why she has been asked to attend, but then ignored. Elayne would like to remind Ellorien of times when House Trakand and House Traemane were friendly with each other. Elayne approaches Kaila Bent and ask Birgitte's whereabouts. Elayne manages to work out that Mat was the intruder and that the two have probably gone out for drinks with each other now. With Birgitte absent, Elayne decides to question the Black Ajah herself. Elayne grabs her seated woman Ahn’gree’all and casts the Mirror of Mists on herself. She disguises herself in a shroud of darkness and then takes the foxhead medallion with her. Elayne then orders all her guardswoman to remain behind and enters the Palace dungeons. She approaches Chesmal Emry, who throws herself to the ground when she says Elayne in disguise. Elayne begins to question Chesmal. She finds out that all Darkfriends are hunting Mat and another, and that Mat has been sighted in Kaymlin. Elayne wants to know who Chesmal's source is, but begins to tip Chesmal off that not all is as it seems. Chesmal continues telling Elayne that a planned invasion of Andor is still underway. Suddenly Elayne can no longer feel the Kin channeling outside and Chesmal's shield has disappeared. The dungeon door bursts open and Jaq Lounalt, Eldrith Jhondar and Temaile Kinderode enter. Eldrith is not fooled by Elayne's disguise and throws a shield at her, which unravels due to Mats Ter'angreal. Elayne manages to shield Eldrith though. Chesmal attacks Elayne next, again to no avail and Elayne shields her as well. Jaq throws himself against Elayne which knocks her into a wall, cracking her shoulder bone at the same time. She lets go of her gateway back to her room. Jaq manages to wrench the ter'angreal of Elayne, making him impervious to channeling now. Elayne throws a weave of Air at Temaile and with the use of her angreal, knocks her out of the room, causing her to go unconscious. Elayne shields her. Jaq trys to escape the room, but Elayne throws Chesmal at him. Jaq drops the medallion as he hits the floor. Elayne can no longer hold up one of her arms due to the break. As she picks the medallion up off the floor she hears Dahveed Hanlon whisper in her ear. He then stabs her in the side and takes her medallion. Elayne loses the Source and can't reach it again. Chesmal stands up surrounded by the Source, due to her shield not being tied up. Hanlon tells Chesmal to Heal Elayne, as he wants to enjoy her without her dying just yet. Jaq makes his getaway from the dungeon. Chesmal Heals Elayne and then Elayne holds up her copied medallion. By reflex Chesmal grabs it which cuts her off from the Source and releases Elaynes shield. Elayne throws a weave of Fire at Chesmal, engulfing her in flames and knocking Elayne to the ground. Hanlon picks up the second medallion. Elayne lifts Eldrith up, holding her between herself and Hanlon. He leaps forward and slits Eldrith's throat. He then ducks down and kills the unconscious Temaile with his dagger. Elayne pulls down the ceiling above Hanlon with Earth. It misses him but creates a blockage between the two. Hanlon runs away, but with only the copied medallion. Elayne finds the original in the wreckage. She sinks to the ground and is finally found by Birgitte and Mat. Hanlon has escaped and the Kin and guardswomen who were guarding the prisoners have been found dead. 



Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


An hour after the botched murder of Igwayne al'Veer, Gawyn is reprimanded by Igwayne. Igwayne is annoyed that he has scared off Mesaana, but Gawyn argues that it was a blurred man. Igwayne tells Gawyn either way she had weaves ready to capture the enemy, now any enemy that approaches her will be extra careful. Gawyn argues that it would be very difficult to be her Warder, as she doesn't seem to want one. Igwayne agrees then leaves to tell the Tower guard to be vigilant. Jimar Chubain and Gawyn find one of the assassin’s knifes, which Gawyn keeps. Gawyn tells Chubain about the Younglings and asks if they can join the Tower guard. Gawyn wants them to stay together as a unit. Chubain agrees, allowing them to become part of the Tenth Tower Company, as the entire unit had just about been lost in the Shawn'chin raid. Sulky at Igwayne for not wanting him as her Warder Gawyn makes his way to the Traveling ground. Here he takes a gateway to Kaymlin.



Point of view: LAN Mandragoran.


LAN Mandragoran asks what Nazar Kurenin has in his saddlebags. Nazar pulls out the golden crane flag saying his heritage allows him to own it. Three more men had recently joined the camp. LAN's group was approaching the Arafel border. LAN realizes there are eight new men in camp, three Malkieri and five Shienaran. It is Weilin Aldragoran and his group. Rakim had found them at night and brought them back to camp while LAN was asleep. The merchants had sold up everything they owned to buy supplies, which they have brought into LAN's camp. Frustrated LAN tells them they are now posing as a caravan. The five had become a dozen.





Chapter 24. To Make a Stand.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne Trakand is sentenced to a week bed rest by Melfane Dawlish. Birgitte Silverbow is present and lets Elayne know her full displeasure at what she did and that she did it without Birgitte present. Elayne promises to tone things down now. Matrim Cauthon enters. Elayne tells Mat about how Darkfriends are intent on killing Mat. Birgitte reports that Jaq Lounalt was found dead with a knife in his back. Dahveed Hanlon, Mili Skane, Marillin Gemalphin and Falion Bhoda have all escaped. Elayne reflects that a copy of the foxhead medallion is still missing as well as an apparent Andoran invasion. Elayne gives Mat his medallion back. Mat asks for some help with the Gholam.



Point of view: Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day.


Yoeli reports to Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day that all civilians of Maradon have been evacuated. Yoeli's sister Sigril has sent word to all the watchposts in Saldaea requesting aid at Maradon and that a watchfire will be lit when help arrives. Ee'two'rahl'day has been Healed by Antail, who now works in a separate area Healing the rest of the wounded. Yoeli and all his men now wear the Traitors Banner. Yoeli takes Ee'two'rahl'day to the room of Lord Vram Torkumen and his Lady. Torkumen states that bringing foreign troops to Saldaean soil can risk war. Ee'two'rahl'day tells them that he serves the Lord Dragon and laws do not apply here. Ee'two'rahl'day names Torkumen a Darkfriend for not bringing any aide against the Trolloc army. They leave the room. Ee'two'rahl'day tells Yoeli has no reason to fear being executed. Yoeli replies that he will demand execution as he staged a revolt and has taken command of the city, killing countrymen in the process. Both Yoeli and Ee'two'rahl'day will not flee the city and will take a stand here.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra and Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra get ready for bed. Pairin informs her that the Children of the Light have picked a battlefield. Pairin's plan is to bombard the Whitecloaks with the Asha'man first and then engage with the rest of the army. Pairin is frustrated due to the men of both sides who will be lost, men needed for Tarmon Gai'don. Pairin goes to sleep.

Pairin wakes in the wolfdream. Pairin chases Oak Dancers pack. He follows them across the land turning into Young Bull the wolf, pushing faster and faster but never quite catching them. Hopper appears and commends Pairin on his growing skills in the dream. However, Hopper chastises Pairin on the hunt for the white stag, noting he was the only one who didn't know the hunt was over. Pairin starts to realize that a number of things he has done in the wolfdream he has blamed on the wolves, rather than it coming from within. Hopper confirms Pairin can run on two legs just as fast as four, not needing to become the wolf. Hopper tells Pairin that he doesn't need to run but directly go to where he wants to. Pairin concentrates and shifts to where Oak Dancer and her pack are. The pack turn to the southwest and disappear. Pairin asks Hopper how to follow them. He sends back that it is like a smell or impression that you follow. He manages to work out how to do it and shifts to Dragonmount. There are dozens of wolves gathered on the slopes. Hopper again gets Pairin to follow him. Again Pairin manages to catch the correct scent and shifts back to Jehannah Road. Suddenly they hear Morninglight yip in pain then the mind winks out. Pairin is confused and Hopper tells him they are being hunted. Pairin works out where Morninglight is and shifts to the position. Slayer is there and is surprised by Pairin appearance. The two attack each other. Pairin holds his own for awhile before he is surprised by Slayer manipulating the surroundings to also attack Pairin. Pairin is pulled under water by vines and is about to be shot by Slayer, when Pairin manages to shift to a safer area. Hopper appears and scolds Pairin for his impetuousness. Hopper tells Pairin he has much to learn before engaging Slayer again. Oak Dancer and her pack begin to grieve for Morninglight. Pairin leaves the wolfdream.

Pairin wakes and walks through the camp at night. Gaul, who has decided to become Pairin's watcher, is awake and begins to follow him. Pairin picks up his axe and begins to split some logs. As he works, he thinks back to all the things that have happened and how he now seeks to find the balance within himself between the man and the wolf. Elyas Machera approaches Pairin. Pairin asks if he could ignore the wolf voices. Elyas admitted he tried, but had to leave his former Warder life when the Eyes Sedai tried to gentle him. Elyas tells Pairin he avoids the wolfdream and that he has somehow found balance within himself.  Pairin finds solace in Elyas still acting as a human and tells him that he plans to fight the Whitecloaks tomorrow. 





Chapter 25. Return to Bandar Eban.






Point of view: Min Farshaw.


Min Farshaw and Rand al'Thor Travel back to Bandar Eban with Lerian, Heidia and Naeff as bodyguards. They find a city now choked with sick, dirty and starving people. Refugees from other countries as well as Domani clog the streets and alleyways. Rand feels guilty for what has happened here remembering that Ebou Dar is in much better condition under the Shawn'chin. Min tries to comfort Rand and has a viewing:

Dark clouds pushed away by sunlight's warmth. Rand seen with a brilliant white sword in hand facing a black one held by faceless darkness. Trees growing green again bearing fruit. A field, the crops healthy and full. In the Two Rivers, an inn with the Dragon's Fang on it, no longer a sign of darkness and hate but of victory and hope.

She then looks at all the gathered people and sees:



Above Durnham's head: A silver axe- he will be a leader in the Last Battle.
Above a nameless woman: She will train in the White Tower and become Eyes Sedai.
A nameless tough: He will save the woman's life. He will fight.
The rest of the crowd: They will all fight.


Min manages to cheer Rand up. One of the street beggars states that Rand is the Dragon Reborn. Rand confirms this and asks if he is a soldier. His name is Durnham and he was once one of the King's Guard before being dismissed by Milisair Chadmar. Rand promotes him to Captain and charges him with keeping the law. He brings two of his old companions Redbord and Votabek over and Rand makes them lieutenants. The men clear out an old building and Naeff sets up a Gateway to Tear through which the Domani men can collect armor, weapons and uniforms through. Soon other former soldiers are collected and the woman Min saw earlier sets up a station for wiping and cleaning the people around them. The number of soldiers soon grows to five hundred strong. Rand then brings Eyes Sedai through the gateway to start Healing the people. Duenham suggests moving to the docks for more room.

The crowd soon reaches the dock and is stopped by a barricade. Rand tears the barricade down with the One Power. Iralin steps out and confronts Rand on abandoning Bandar Eban. He set up the barricade as the people who were eating the spoilt grain from the Sea Folk barges were getting sick and then dying. Rand apologizes and asks for passage from the nearest Sea Folk barge. 

Milis din Shalada Three Stars is the Sailmistress on board. She wants to deliver her goods but Iralin won't let her unload due to the effects of the tainted grain. Rand comes on board with his group and they go to the ships hold. There are tipped out sacks with black grain spilt on the deck which has been killing even the rats. Iralin tells Rand all the opened sacks are in the same state. Rand tells Durnham to open the nearest closed sack, which he does and exposes beautiful golden grains. Rand promises that all the other closed sacks will be in exactly the same condition. Iralin is skeptical but Rand assures him that only the ones that were opened were actually tainted. He then names Iralin to the Merchant's Council and puts him as his steward of Arad Doman with Durnham as his commander. Rand will remain for one more day for Iralin and his men to stabilize the city.





Chapter 26. Parley.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra and his army ride towards battle. He is flanked by Fager Neald and Jewr Grady. Neald tells Pairin that gateways aren't working and they couldn't send the refugees home. However, all other weaves work fine. Pairin looks back at his diverse army. It now contains mercenaries, refugees from Malden, even women have joined the ranks, wanting to train with the men. Pairin is still contemplating the difference between the axe and the hammer as they approach the Children of the Light army. Pairin realizes that the axe can only kill while the hammer can also create. Pairin sends for the Eyes Sedai and the Wise Ones. He wishes to use them to prevent battle from occurring. Pairin orders the Asha'man and the Wise Ones to tear on the ground in front of the Whitecloak army with the One Power, without actually hitting them. He then orders the Two Rivers bowmen to shoot their longbows, so that their arrows fall, again short of the army and into the trench that has just been created. Pairin, with his voice enhanced by Grady, calls to the Whitecloak army that this was his warning shot. He would like one last chance to parley. Pairin asks Neald to create a gateway back to camp, but Neald admits it still can't be done. He asks Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron and Alliandre Maritha Kigarin to join in the pavilion to parley.



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Galadedrid Dawmodred had asked his men to not engage or even act like they would attack an Eyes Sedai, as their three oaths bound them to not attack unless in danger. However, he had not expected the black coated men and the Eye’eel women who could channel. Galaad realizes that his men would be pulverized in a direct charge by the One Power, and so agrees to parley. Galaad commands Alaabar Harnesh to take over command if he doesn't return and that the any channeler must be engaged first and taken out of the battle. Galaad rides to where Pairin has his pavilion set up, with Dain and Jaret Byar beside him. As Galaad moves to sit in the pavilion, he spots Berelain and is absolutely overtaken by her extreme beauty. Galaad struggles to comprehend how Berelain could be in league with Pairin, who must be Shadowspawn due to his eyes. Pairin introduces Galaad to Berelain, Alliandre and Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra. Galaad then introduces himself. Pairin knows of Galaad and that Elayne Trakand is his half-sister. Pairin notes that Elayne and Rand are in a relationship. Galaad doesn't seem surprised. Pairin admits that the upcoming battle is all about Pairin killing two Children in the past. Bornhauld demands to know about his father too. Pairin replies that the Shawn'chin killed him and his men and that Pairin had nothing to do with that. Pairin asks if he can stand trial for the murders. They then debate who should stand judge, Galaad dismissing each candidate Pairin puts forward. Galaad declares the parley a waste of time and is about to leave when he hears a gasp behind him. He turns to spot his mother Morgays Trakand. He sweeps her up in a hug and realizes that his killing of Eamon Valda was unjustified. Everyone is shocked when Morgays admits she is in fact former Queen of Andor, having renounced her claim to Elayne. Galaad wants to take her back to his camp to look after her. Pairin stops him and asks if she would be a suitable judge. Galaad instantly agrees. Galaad is happy to have the trial to prove that Pairin is guilty. Pairin asks to have his people that are held in captivity back. Galaad agrees once the trial starts, which is slated to begin in three days time.





Chapter 27. A Call to Stand.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne al'Veer reads a letter of reply from King Darlin Sisnera. He states that he is loyal to Rand and although he is troubled at the notion of breaking the Seals, he will not oppose him. Darlin has raised an army and will send a contingent to represent Tear at Igwayne's meeting. Igwayne writes back that she needs the full support of his army at the Field of Merrilor to oppose Rand. She pledges to create gateways to bring Darlin's armies there, and if the Shawn'chin attack, to transport them back to Tear again. Writing this, she realizes that the Shawn'chin can probably Travel now. Igwayne writes a letter to Gregorin den Lushenos in Illian with the same pledge as Darlin. Mattin Stepaneos den Balgar was still also in the White Tower but is reluctant to go back to Illian. Silviana Brehon enters telling Igwayne that a massive Trolloc army have begun their invasion of the Borderlander nations. Silviana then tells her that the Hall have met without Igwayne, just as she had anticipated. It is Nicola Treehill and Nissa who had brought the news, both just having been raised to Accepted. Igwayne enters the Hall to see it is two thirds full. Igwayne sits down and waits for the discussion to resume. Rubinde Acedone has the floor and talks about Tower law allowing the Amyrlin Seat to have total power in a situation of war. The Hall was created to balance the Amyrlins power. They debate how to call war on the Shadowspawn army, without directly declaring war so as to give Igwayne all the power. Igwayne asks how this can be achieved. Romanda Cassin states that there is a provision where the Hall can take up the planning of the war. 



Igwayne has been directly communicating with the monarchs, so she would maintain this role, while the Hall would take over the day to day preparation of the White Tower army and dealings with Gareth Bryne. They put it to the vote. Rubinde, Faiselle Darone, Farnah Sadaou, Raechin Connoral, Viria Connoral, Magla Daronos, Romanda, Ferane Neheran and Lelaine Akashi all stand. Barasine, Takima Deraighdin and Saroiya Farseen all stay seated. Saroiya suddenly works out what this will mean and means to call out when Doesine Alwain and Yukiri Haruna enter the Hall. Syreen Asnobar stands and tells the two new entrants to also stand for the motion, which they accept. The greater consensus agrees with the motion and is passed. Saroiya finally gets out that the Dragon Reborn is king of Illian. In accepting this motion the Hall has given sole responsibility of dealing with the Dragon to Igwayne.


The Hall realize the trap they have just fallen into. Igwayne is pleased by the vote however chides them for meeting in secret so soon after previous events. Igwayne makes a proposal that any future meetings of the Hall must have all Sitters present. If any are absent then a surrogate will be appointed instead. The Amyrlin must also be notified of all meetings and it is up to her whether she attends or not. She states previous meetings have lead to manipulation from the Black Ajah. The Last Battle is near the the White Tower must be unified and pointing in the same direction. The entire Hall stands to accept Igwayne's proposal. As they leave the Hall, Silviana is pleased at how it all went. Igwayne sends Nicola and Nissa to Kaymlin to pick up dream Ter'angreal. She promises to start training both of them on how to use them. Igwayne expects rumors of them being trained will spread and hopefully draw out the assassins still in the Tower. Silviana informs Igwayne that Gawyn Trakand has left the White Tower. She sends word for him to return immediately.





Chapter 28. Oddities.






Point of view: Faile Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra tells Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra that he smells a wrongness to the air. There are also very few animals around. Faile admits she is angry with Morgays Trakand for not reveling her true identity. Faile is concerned about the trial. Faile also noticed the connection between Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron and Galadedrid Dawmodred at the parley. Pairin goes to sleep to enter the wolfdream.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


In the Wolf dream, Pairin unintentionally appears by the Tower of Ghenjai.  Hopper appears and warns him that this is a dangerous place and Pairin was attracted here due to his connection with that another insane cub (Matrim Cauthon). Then Hopper tells Pairin that the purple dome has appeared again. The two shift towards the dome and circle it's massive circumference. Hopper's memories connect the dome with the Age of Legends. Pairin realizes that Oak Dancer and her pack are inside the dome with Slayer. Pairin tries to shift inside but is blocked by the dome. The wolves inside send panicked thoughts. Pairin tries to walk inside but as soon as he touches the dome his muscles collapse on him with even his lungs refusing to move. Hopper pulls him back out, then manages to push through. Pairin finally manages to push successfully through. Sparks has been hit with an arrow. Pairin picks up Sparks to try and take her away from danger and out of the dome, while Hopper, Oak Dancer and Boundless try to distract Slayer and lead him away. Pairin shifts towards the dome only to meet face to face with Slayer. Pairin manages to shift elsewhere and push through the dome, collapsing on the other side. Sparks sends an image of Slayer standing above him, bow drawn, so Pairin quickly shifts away with the wolf to Dragonmount. Slayer doesn't follow but an image of Whisperer being killed by Slayer is sent. Pairin wants to attack but Hopper won't allow, noting Slayer is too strong. Pairin tells Hopper of the odd smell in the waking world and wonders if there is a link to this and the dome. Pairin continues his training with Hopper.



Point of view: Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day.


Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day waits inside Maradon. He wonders why the Shadowspawn hasn't attacked the army yet. Yoeli who is on the wall summons Ee'two'rahl'day. Deepe Bhadar is also present and tells the men he can feel men channeling within the massive Trolloc army. The men seem to be channeling something massive. Yoeli wonders if they have Asha'man of their own, which Deepe fervently denies. Deepe feels that whatever they are planning will happen soon. Ee'two'rahl'day wants the Asha'man to depart via gateway if it looks like Maradon will be overrun. Suddenly a huge explosion hits knocking all the men to the ground. A massive hole in Maradon's will now greets Ituraldes sight. Ee'two'rahl'day finds Deepe alive on the ground, but with his lower right leg missing. Connel finds Ee'two'rahl'day and rushes him to the Healing tent. Antail then uses a weave that will Heal Ee'two'rahl'day in the short term but can be very dangerous long-term. Ee'two'rahl'day feels strong and aware but a deep exhaustion in his bones. Deepe has also been Healed by Antail and now lies unconscious on the cot. The Trolloc army begin boarding rafts to cross the moat into Maradon. Ee'two'rahl'day realizes the city is lost and plans to retreat through gateways. Yoeli points to a lit watchfire in the distance and tells Ee'two'rahl'day they can't leave Maradon as aid is on the way. Ee'two'rahl'day orders Tymoth and his Asha'man to hold the defenses at the wall for a short period, while Ee'two'rahl'day organizes his troops into a better defensive position.

The Asha'man at the wall were finally tiring after blasting the Trolloc army for the better part of an hour. Ee'two'rahl'day orders them to fall back. The Trolloc army cautiously enters Maradon. They start charging down the street straight into an ambush. Archers fire on the Shadowspawn army, hidden in buildings on both sides. Next cavalry charge down the front ranks of the Trollocs. The Trolloc army retreats back out the gap. Ee'two'rahl'day orders the men to fall back into different positions. The Trolloc army will now be more cautious when they attack Maradon anew. Ee'two'rahl'day plans to keep them off guard until help finally arrives, if it does.





Chapter 29. A Terrible Feeling.






Point of view: Faile Eyebarra.


Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron wonders aloud what Pairin Aybaras plan is against the Children of the Light to Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra and Alliandre Maritha Kigarin as they walk through the camp. Berelain would like to meet with Galaad again, for "diplomacy" reasons. Refugees have left the camp, traveling by foot to Kai'rienne. Even with those leaving, the camp still continues to swell. Berelain seems captivated by Galaad. The three women are hurt by Morgays Trakands deceit at hiding her identity. They wonder how Morgays will judge Pairin at the trial. Suddenly a Bubble of evil erupts inside the camp. Everyone's weapon seems to come to life and attack the owner. Faile's knife dives for her face, but is snatched by Sulin before it reaches its mark. Berelain lays on the ground, grappling with her own dagger. Faile runs over and helps drive the dagger into the ground. When it touches the dirt, it falls lifeless again. This happens again when they manage to drive Sulin's spear into the ground. Faile then gets everyone to spread the news throughout the camp.



Point of view: Morgays Trakand.


Morgays and Galaad catch up on events in his tent. Galaad admits that killing Eamon Valda was not completely justified and that he will have to release a statement explaining it. Morgays is shocked that Galaad managed to best Valda in a duel. They discuss Pairin, with Morgays trying to convince Galaad that Pairin is a good man. Galaad is convinced he is Shadowspawn. Their talk moves to Galads plans for Tarmon Gai'don. Galaad states he will fight side by side with the Dragon Reborn and with Eyes Sedai if need be. Morgays tries to get Galaad to see the shades of grey that exist in any decision. She brings up Galads threat to execute the prisoners if Pairin did not come forward. He was just bluffing which means Galaad was telling a lie, something he believes he doesn't do. Morgays tells Galaad of when she sat in judgement of Tham Felmley. Everyone believed he committed a murder so was sentenced to hang. Later it was revealed he was innocent, therefore meaning Morgays had condemned an innocent man to death. Morgays wants Galaad to think things through more carefully, taking in all the surrounding circumstances. Galaad then receives a message from Eyebarra's camp asking for an extended time on the trial due to a disturbance within the camp. Galaad considers it. 



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin walks with Gaul through the camp assessing the damage and numbers of men who were killed or wounded. During the disturbance Pairin's hammer hadn't attacked him. Tamlin al'Thor approaches Pairin and asks permission to leave camp and attend to a secret matter involving Rand. Pairin sees Rand in his mind and he looks dark and dangerous. Pairin gives his leave.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne Trakand is carried in a litter to where Aludra has set up her dragon demonstration. As she is carries she reflects on the Cairhienin nobles looking forward to her taking the throne, but not actually offering her any support. Aldra has set up a mock battle with dummies on the field and two dragons on Caemlyns wall. Some men from the Band of the Red Hand man the dragon. Aludra waves a flag and the men fire the dragon. It misses the dummies but blows a huge chunk in the hill behind them. Aludra sends a message and the men change the position, reload the dragon, which takes around 3 minutes and fire again. This time it hits the target blowing about six dummies up and knocking down dozens around them. Elayne cannot believe the destructive potential of having more dragons lined completely around her wall. She pledges to give all the resources Aludra needs to make more dragons, as long as she swears an oath to keep the plans and designs secret. Aludra agrees. Birgitte Silverbow is absolutely amazed, but realizes that warfare has just changed significantly.





Chapter 30. Men Dream Here.






Point of view: Faile Eyebarra.


Faile Bashere walks through the camp with Selande Darengil and Lacile Aldorwin who have just returned from the Whitecloak camp. The Whitecloaks suspected that the two woman were spying so didn't give much away. They did find that the men respect Galadedrid Dawmodred although they aren't happy with his decision to ally themselves with the White Tower at the Last Battle. 
Dannil Lewin steps out and informs Faile about the plans involved with guarding Pairin Eyebarra during the trial. Jewr Grady will pull Pairin away with the One Power if things go wrong and Fager Neald will cover their retreat. Dannil has also set up Two Rivers bowmen up in the trees.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin continues to train with Hopper in the Wolf Dream. Hopper manages to defeat Pairin when he shifts from the battle to a new location. Pairin follows and shifts into a pool of water which over-whelms him. Hopper is still disapproving of his wolf dream ability and tries to discourage any confrontation with Slayer. Pairin is adamant on conflict with Slayer so Hopper shifts to Kaymlin with Pairin in tow. Hopper tells him that nightmares appear where humans live and that this could be a tactic he uses against Slayer. Pairin senses terror nearby and Hopper confirms that this a nightmare. Pairin jumps into the nightmare and finds a fleeing woman being chased by an enormous monstrosity. She screams about being chased by the Dragon Reborn which shocks Pairin. He tries to will the towering nightmare away by relating the Dragon to Rand al'Thor who is one of his friends. Hopper leaps into the dream and pushes back the darkness. With Hopper's help and Pairin's belief that the dream isn't real he manages to dispel the nightmare. Hopper keeps gazing northwards and tells Pairin that the Last Hunt may or may not begin. Pairin is confused so the two shift north.

They arrive at Dragonmount where all the wolves are gathered. Hopper tells Pairin that they are awaiting a decision, one leads to the Last Hunt, the other leads to nothingness. Pairin begins to make his way up to the top of the peak to observe what is happening. The higher he goes, the more powerful the storm that is buffeting him becomes. He finally reaches the peak and spies Rand motionless, gazing outwards surrounded by a massive tempest of thunder and lightning. Pairin believes he has to be here to witness what is about to occur. As he watches, a massive black evil starts to pull itself from Rand's body and surround him. The black miasma fully encases him completely enclosing Rand. Suddenly a thin point of light shoots out of the black cocoon and reaches the sky. The tempest continues to blow beating against the light, which still continues to glow. The cocoon begins to crack and then completely disintegrates exposing a blazing figure of light inside. A column of light shoots into the sky and breaks up the cloud cover above. Rand stands at the center screaming at the skies until the tempest vanishes. Rand disappears leaving the sunlight radiating down on the mount. The wolves begin to all howl in triumph many of them shifting to where Pairin is, leaping in and out of the sunlight. Hopper appears and tells Pairin that they live and that the Last Hunt begins. Young Bull howls with the wolves.





Chapter 31. Into the Void.






Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Matrim Cauthon dices in an inn. He challenges a group of men who are trying to cheat Mat. Mat declares he has won and declares to the room if that is correct. The three men he is dicing with seem to recognize him and hurriedly leave. Mat leaves as well and ties his Silver foxhead medallion to his Ashandarei. Mat then begins to walk through the streets of Kaymlin picking streets randomly. As Mat wanders aimlessly, he is attacked by four different groups of thugs and assassins. Tahlmahness Delovinde and a group of Band of the Red Hand, who are hiding in the shadows, lend Mat aid each time. Mat finally encounters the Gholam. The men of the Band set lanterns around Mat. The gholam then attacks Mat. Mat manages to repel the gholam with his ashandarei and medallion, wounding it a few times. The gholam then breaks away and aims for Mat's men. Mat orders them to retreat which they do. The gholam starts knocking over all the lanterns and Tahlmahness snatches up the last one before the alleyway in engulfed in darkness and runs away. The gholam begins to chase him. Tahlmahness drops the lantern at the foot of a building, which causes it to go up in flames. Mat throws his ashandarei at the gholam which lands at its feet, tripping it up. Tahlmahness manages to escape. The gholam realizes that Mat is defenseless and stalks over to finally finish him. Just as the gholam is about to reach Mat, he pulls out two of Elayne Trakands copied medallions and smashes them together on the gholams palm, causing it to burn him. They are connected to chains and Mat starts swinging them at the gholam. The gholam has had enough and dashes into the burning building. Tahlmahness throws Mat back his ashandarei. Mat notices that the bottom of it has been burnt by the fire. Mat then chases the gholam. The gholam spots Mat following and the two begin to fight anew. Mat attacks with his full strength calling out in the Old Tongue. He manages to knock the gholam back step by step until it is finally knocked off the edge of a platform. The gholam manages to grab the the edge, its feet dangling over a void of nothing. Mat stomps down on the back of the gholam pushing it completely into the void where it begins to fall. Mat hopes it falls forever. Sumeko Karistovan steps forward, having created the gateway that the gholam fell through. Sumeko had created the weaves inside the palace, so as not to alert the gholam there was a channeler nearby. Julanya Fote helps put the fire engulfing the building out. Mat asks her if the darkness within the Skimming void goes forever. Julanya is as sure as can be but believes the gholam could still sense the gateway before it fell in. The Kin also had their revenge on the gholam. Charlz Guybon enters the building. Tahlmahness tells him that the Band has just completed a Crown contract for dispatching a murderer in Kaymlin. The plan was for Tahlmahness to lead the gholam to this particular building. Guybon made sure that all residents in the nearby buildings were evacuated before the gholam arrived. Finally Elayne had the idea of creating the Skimming portal which they would try and push the gholam into. All together it made a much better plan than Mat's, which was to try and push his medallion down its throat.





Chapter 32. A Storm of Light.






Point of view: Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day.


Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day has ordered his men to gather in small groups, then hide until some Trollocs come close, and strike unexpected at the Trollocs, with cavelry and bowman. After they've done this for a few hours, Ee'two'rahl'day's army of two hundred bowman has only fifty left. Ee'two'rahl'day has Antail create a gateway which the remaining Asha'man crawl through. He and his men hear footsteps. Hundreds. Ee'two'rahl'day signs for plan six - hide until the army has gone away. Then one of his men notices there are no hoofbeats. When Ee'two'rahl'day goes outside the building to have a look, it turns out the Dragon has finally sent help. Instead of yelling, the men sit on the ground, exhausted. Ee'two'rahl'day sees sunlight again.

Some time later, he is together with Davram Bashere in Vram Torkumen's home. The city is cleansed, but Ee'two'rahl'day and Bashere know the Trollocs will attack again when the night falls.



Ee'two'rahl'day saysTell me the Lord Dragon made peace with the Shawn'chin, as he promisedTell me the Lord Dragon made peace with the Shawn'chin, as he promised
A voice says from behindIn that, as in so many other things, I failedIn that, as in so many other things, I failed


Ee'two'rahl'day turns, and sees Rand al'Thor has changed, and he notices wisdom in his eyes. While talking on, a soldier at the window suddenly exclaims: "By the Light and my hope for rebirth!" Not the kind of oath one hears every day. Curious they look through the window, and see an army of Trollocs, many times larger than the army that assaulted Maradon. Ee'two'rahl'day and Bashere say the city is lost, but Rand doesn't want to hear that. After Bashere says "I thought he wasn't going to do this kind of thing anymore," Rand goes to the field between Maradon and the hill, together with two Maidens. And then he began to channel. The first things were giant waves of fire, far larger than the Asha'man used. Draghkar who wanted to reach Rand were all hit by shards of ice. Then Rand also made Deathgates, and after it, also lightning struck the Trollocs. Tornadoes rage between the Trollocs, followed by fountains of flesh and fire. Ee'two'rahl'day hears a scream, but doesn't look away from the window. Naeff, who also watches the storm of light, cannot track all the weaves created at once. Then the Trollocs flee. Rand goes on for some more seconds, and then stops. For Ee'two'rahl'day, it seems like seconds, but at least an hour has passed. They go to look where the scream came from, and find Torkumen in his chamber, eyes cut out, mumbling of a "terrible light" and army "the Great Lord had promised." When Bashere looks down from the window, he sees that Lady Torkumen jumped down, and now they know Torkumen was a Darkfriend.



Point of view: Min Farshaw.


Min Farshaw is in the Stone of Tear when Rand goes to Maradon. She can feel his anger through the Bond. She studies some more verses on Callandor.



Light is held before the maw of the infinite void, and all that he is can be seizedLight is held before the maw of the infinite void, and all that he is can be seized 


Rand stumbles back exhausted, still in his old coat. Evasni criticize that Rand was risking but Ifeyina believes that he gained much ji after his recent victory. All the men from Maradon come through gateway looking bloody and covered in soot. Bashere and Ee'two'rahl'day enter the room, Ee'two'rahl'day in particular looking very much worse for wear. Rand tells Min that he was roused to terrible anger watching the Dark One trying to break the spirit of the men defending Maradon. Rand could not allow that and so stepped in to save the city. Rand is wary of his confrontation with the Dark One happening to early as it must happen at Shay'ole Ghoul. If Rand's enemies should come now, they could easily kill him. Rand plans to meet with the Borderlands army in Far Madding, to find out what they want. Min tells Rand that Cadsuane Melaidhrin has returned, and she has someone with her. Rand asks her how her studies are going. Min confirms that Rand will need to be in a circle with two other women when he uses Callandor, however, the flaw within Callandor suggests that once this happens Rand will be wide open to attack. Rand replies that this may be a way how he will die, Min promises to keep him alive. Rand goes to meet Cadsuane and asks Ee'two'rahl'day to go with him. Once they reach her room, Ee'two'rahl'day gasps at who Cadsuane has in her room. It turns out to be the King of Arad Doman, Alsalam Saeed Almadar. Ee'two'rahl'day rushes in and drops to his knees weeping at the feet of his liege lord. Rand tells Min that a friend left him a secret  confirming that Mattin Stepaneos den Balgar had but taken for "safe-keeping" by the White Tower. His guess was that Alsalam had also been taken, but the knowledge of Travelling had not yet reached the Eyes Sedai escorting him, and the snows had slowed their progress down. Rand is pleased that the monarch was not one of those he Balefired in Graendals fortress. 





Chapter 33. A Good Soup.






Point of view: Sewan Sawnchay.


Sewan Sawnchay eats soup with Nine'eev al'Meera, as she discusses her time with Rand to Igwayne al'Veer. The soup is, surprisingly,  good as all ingredients are from Kaymlin, where, thanks to Rand, the influence of the Drak One is neutralized. The cleansing of Sai'deen and the Asha'man bonding Eyes Sedai are topics brought up. They then talk about the change within Rand. Igwayne is concerned over the deaths in the Tower and outlines her plan to Nine'eev on how they will capture the assailants. She intends to have a meeting with Wise Ones and Windfinders in Tel'aran'rhiod. Sewan and Nine'eev will hold a decoy meeting in the Hall of the Tower at the same time to draw out the Black Ajah. Nine'eev begs Igwayne to remain behind and let her lead, but Igwayne is committed to being in this fight. They will request the Wise Ones aid in this fight, especially if Mesaana is involved.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra enters nightmare after nightmare in the wolfdream. Throughout the terrible scenes around him, he keeps reminding himself it is not real. Pairin manages to overcome the nightmare before searching for his next. Hopper continues to train Pairin, as Pairin tries to make himself strong as possible before facing Slayer.



Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Gawyn Trakand roams through the blossoming Royal gardens of Kaymlin, which is sunny with dark clouds on the horizon. He has heard rumors of Elayne commissioning a new weapon. Elayne greets him and talk turns to Rand. Gawyn still hates him and works out that the babies Elayne is carrying are his. She replies that if they were, they would be a massive target. Elayne notes that Rand is changing, cleansing himself of darkness. She then asks why he has returned to Kaymlin as he was not present when she was fighting to recapture the Crown of Andor. He has not made any move to become Captain-General since he has been back. Gawyn is not sure what he wants, only that he loves Igwayne al'Veer. Elayne works out part of Gawyn's hate for Rand stems from jealousy at Rand having accomplished so much while Gawyn has just been a pawn in Eyes Sedai games. Elayne releases him from all duties as Captain-General. After saying farewell to Elayne, he ponders her words and decides to drop his vendetta against Rand. A huge weight has finally lifted from his shoulders, though he still cannot believe that blossoming flowers and blue sky are Rand's doings. 

Gawyn stands there analyzing the black assassin's knife when he hears someone behind him exclaim. Marille is walking through the gardens with Dimana Corrand and has recognized the blade. Gawyn asks her about it and she explains that it belongs to Shawn'chin assassins. Gawyn drills her for more information but she doesn't know anything more. Marille tells Gawyn that Kaisea may know more and Dimana goes to fetch her. When she arrives she takes Gawyn to the side explaining that once she was a Sul'dam and now insists that she should be Da'MAW'nee. Dimana believes she is learning weaves and then will create an "accident" with the One Power to prove she should be collared. Gawyn shows Kaisea the assassin knife and promises to try and get her collared if she answers his questions. She explains how a Bloodknife works and the Ter'angreal they carry. Once activated, it will poison the Bloodknife. Kaisea believes that the deaths in the White Tower are just a test before they carry out their actual task. Gawyn asks for any weaknesses such as more light, but this will only carry more shadow. Kaisea believes that for Gawyn to survive a Bloodknife, he must not have been the target. Gawyn realizes Igwayne must have been. Gawyn then receives a message from Igwayne, demanding that he returns to Tar Vawlyn now. Gawyn furious at Igwayne gives the knife and all the information he has just learnt to the messenger, who is to give then give it to Igwayne. For it will not be Gawyn, as he will not be going back now.





Chapter 34. Judgment.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra sets off for the trial. He asks Sulin to make sure all the scouts are out during the trial. Pairin is concerned with the disorder within his army, with all the different factions and plans to disband them after the trial. Pairin assumes that Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra has a plan to get Pairin out of danger if the trial goes wrong. He tells Dannil Lewin to wait for his signal before carrying out the plan though. Pairin had had Fager Neald and Gaul setting off in different directions to see if the Asha'man could Travel. Further enough from the camp and they could although they had no explanation why. Pairin suspects it has to do with the purple dome in the wolfdream. Pairin links when Nealds weaves for Traveling first failed, to the first time he encountered the purple dome realizing that Slayer must have been testing it out. He tells his suspicions to Neald and suspects that some sort of trap has been set. Pairin has sent Elyas Machera on a special scouting mission. Pairin believes that if he fights the Children of the Light, then some sort of force will ambush him while they are weakened. Gaul comments that Pairin is finally changing to become the chief he should be.



Point of view: Faile Eyebarra.


The army is getting ready to break camp. As Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra walks through the camp she spots a number of Two Rivers folks. They now look at her with relief. It seems Faile saving Berelain sur Paendrag Paerons life during the Bubble of evil, as well as their pretend friendship seems to be putting all the men at ease now. She meets with Pairin Eyebarra and notices that no Far Dareis Mai are present. Faile knows that the Eye’eel take their job of protecting Pairin very seriously, their orders having come from their Car'a'carn. The entire camp is gathering for the trial. Faile notices Pairin very tense. He tells her that something is wrong, that their armies are being herded like sheep. Pairin then reveals his connection to Rand. He can feel the pattern pulling him towards Rand and how he can see him whenever he thinks of Rand. Pairin finally realizes that the camp has been trapped in this position on purpose. Elyas is searching for a Waygate that maybe nearby. Faile believes her husband. The army make their way to the trial. Gaul runs beside Pairin, prideful that Pairin is going to meet his toh. They arrive at a pavilion set up with Morgays Trakand seated on an elevated chair. The Whitecloaks are already in attendance. 



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin and his group take their seats in-front of Morgays. The trial begins. Galadedrid Dawmodred charges Pairin with the deaths of Lathin and Yamwick. Jaret Byar runs through the events that happened that night. Child Oratar backs Byar's testimonial. Next is Pairin's turn to speak. Pairin tells everyone that he can speak to wolves. He then tells the court that everyone was afraid that night, that the Whitecloaks killed the wolves, his friends and Pairin came to their aid. Dain stands claiming Pairin is a Darkfriend and that he killed his father. Pairin tells him of the events that happened in Fal'meh. Bornhauld is troubled when Pairin swears he fought with the Whitecloaks against the Shawn'chin. Byar tries to dispute what Pairin has said, claiming he fought with creatures of evil, Pairin replies they were the Heroes of the Horn. Pairin wonders aloud why Byar gave him the chance to escape all those years ago. Byar turns to Morgays claiming this trial is for Pairin. Morgays agrees. Pairin simply states that he didn't murder the two Whitecloaks, he was just defending his friends. Morgays pronounces Pairin guilty due to killing any man in retribution is unlawful. However, she puts this case under the Kainec protocol, due to the Whitecloaks effectively being an unemployed mercenary group. There are no innocents in this case, therefore Pairin is charged with unlawful killing rather than murder. Galaad states that the penalty is still death. Morgays disagrees saying the code is more lenient depending on the circumstances. She deflects punishment to Galaad, due to him being in-charge of the Whitecloaks. Galaad asks Pairin if he will accept judgement. Pairin, after some thought agrees but only on the condition that he meets it after Tarmon Gai'don. Galaad is unsure if he would come back to meet his punishment if he is Shadowspawn. Pairin argues he came to this trial of his own free will and that if he was Shadowspawn, why would he care about the prisoners Galaad had. Galaad accepts Pairin's oath to submit to Galaad's authority after the Last Battle. Byar is in disbelief. Morgays states she is going back to Andor with Pairin. As they all leave Pairin tells Galaad that his punishment has not been given. Galaad confirms this.





Chapter 35. The Right Thing.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne al'Veer is preparing to try and flush out Mesaana in Tel'aran'rhiod tonight. She was running out of time as the coalition against Rand was starting to move. She asks Silviana Brehon to double her guard around her room and to send another meassage to Gawyn Trakand to return to the White Tower.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


The army is quiet on the ride back to camp, deflated even. The prisoners had been returned by Galadedrid Dawmodred as well as all the supply carts. Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra rides up to Pairin Eyebarra furiously asking him what he was thinking. Pairin loses his cool as yells back at her, telling her that the Children of the Light are going to fight at Tarmon Gai'don too. The more of their army and the Whitecloaks they lose, then the less men there are to fight the Dark One. The men around Pairin nod in approval. Pairin tells her that the trap has still not been strung yet. He plans to go to the wolfdream and try and destroy the purple dome Slayer has set up. Pairin places Faile in charge of the camp and that they are to march to Whitebridge within an hour. Pairin believes Slayer is Lord Luc and that Malden, then the Whitecloaks and the area they are in; Ghealdan where Pairin first met Noam, is all connected.



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Jaret Byar confronts Galadedrid Dawmodred furiously. Galaad believes that Pairin will honor his oath and return after the Last Battle. Galaad plans to march away from Pairin's camp during the night. Dain is quieter than usual. He believes that Pairin didn't actually kill his father, although he still killed the other two Children. Galaad agrees with Bornhauld. For the first time in his life he is unsure of what the right thing is, in the case of Pairin. He thinks back to what his mother was telling him about the right thing not always being simple.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin wakes in the wolfdream. He shifts to the dome. Hopper appears and tells him that Slayer stays inside the dome to protect whatever is making it. Oak Dancer and her pack appear and pledge to help Pairin take down Slayer. Pairin and the pack push through the dome and make for the center. Pairin can smell the wrongness quite strongly now. The pack approach the center when Pairin senses something. They all shift to different positions as a arrow hits where they had been. The pack attack Slayer. Slayer shifts so that he hovers above Pairin. Pairin manages to change the wind so the arrow Slayer was about to shoot him with, lands instead beside him. The pack renew their attack on Slayer. Slayer manages to stab Oak Dancer through the breast killing her, and slashes Sparks across the face, causing him to retreat from the wolfdream. Slayer wounds Pairin, Hopper and Boundless. Pairin continues his assault, infuriated by the smile Slayer wears at killing one of his pack. Slayer retreats. Pairin then gives him chase. Slayer, surprised by Pairin's skills, manages to escape temporarily. Sparks who hasn't managed to escape from the wolfdream sends an image of the Dreamspike. Pairin appears and picks it up and then shifts to the edge of the dome each time. The dome moves with Pairin always keeping him in the center. He tells the wolves to scatter in all directions to confuse Slayer, while he moves away to try and find a way to destroy the dreamspike. 





Chapter 36. An Invitation.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne al'Veer enters Tel'aran'rhiod and appears in the Yellow Ajah quarters where El'Nine'eev ti al'Meera Mandragoran is waiting for her. She asks Nine'eev to be careful in facing Mesaana. Igwayne then goes to the Musician's Way in Tar Vawlyn. There she meets up with a group of Eyes Sedai, Wise Ones and Windfinders. Shielyn din Sabura Night Waters guesses the point to this meeting was that now it is known that Windfinders can channel, the White Tower will now want them. Igwayne agrees which surprises everyone. After dancing round the point, Igwayne finally puts forward her proposal. 



Two Accepted from the White Tower would train with the Sea Folk where they would learn all their advanced weaves of Air. Two Sea apprentices would go to the White Tower to train. There would also be the same exchange of two for two between the Eyes Sedai and Wise Ones, where they would learn how to use tel'aran'rhiod. This would also be repeated with the Wise Ones and the Sea Folk. The women would train for a period of between six months to two years. At the end of this they would return to where they originally came from and train there for a year. At the end of this period they can then decide where they want to end up living.
Igwayne also wishes to modify the bargain the Eyes Sedai made with the Sea Folk over the Bowl of the Winds. The Sea Folk can keep the dream Ter'angreal that Igwayne has lended them in order to come to tel'aran'rhiod. In return, it would be Sea Folk Eyes Sedai who would train the Sea Folk, rather than any other Eyes Sedai.
Any ter'angreal that are the property of that society already (eg the Glass columns in Roy'deonne) would remain that societies.


Igwayne uses Rand and the Shawn'chin as reasons why they all need to work together. Igwayne knows her decrees are law, but would still like the support of the Hall of the Tower. They should look more favorable on this proposal if Igwayne had get the bargain with the Sea Folk effectively modified. The Sea Folk disappear to discuss these proposals. Amys believes the Wise Ones will agree to Igwayne's proposals and pledge to send their strongest women to be trained. Igwayne then discusses these details with the other Eyes Sedai present. Yukiri Haruna believes the Hall will balk. Igwayne explains that the end of an Age is coming and that so many more Talents are returning. These could also return to the Sea Folk or Wise Ones. Or even the Asha'man. Igwayne vows that the White Tower will guide all these all societies into the new Age. Suddenly Sewan Sawnchay appears with dress singed. The battle has begun.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra races away from Slayer. Slayer appears beside him but Pairin manages to escape. He realizes he cannot just hide the Dreamspike as Slayer will just find it. Pairin vows to kill Slayer. He looks to the horizon and sees the White Tower. The maze like terrain might give Pairin an advantage. He then races towards it.





Chapter 37. Darkness in the Tower.






Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Gawyn Trakand contemplates life in the Royal Palace of Andor. Gawyn realizes that he is jealous of Rand and the life he is leading, a life that Gawyn should be having. Gawyn must step aside from leading and now serve Igwayne al'Veer, as her Warder as he loves her. He sees Birgitte Silverbow and asks if he can say goodbye to Elayne Trakand as he plans to go back to the White Tower. Birgitte tells Gawyn that she is asleep attending to Eyes Sedai matters. Gawyn pieces that Igwayne is also probably there as well and then remembers Kaiseas warning about the Bloodknifes attacking when a person is at their most vulnerable. He sprints to the Traveling grounds and ask for a gateway to the White Tower. He is surprised to see that the gateway was closed suddenly, almost cutting his leg off.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne appears with the Wise Ones and Lee’ahnna Sharif to where the Eyes Sedai hiding. Syreen Asnobar reports that they were carrying out their fake ploy when the Black Ajah attacked. Shevan Gadarin and Carlinya Sorevin are killed in the initial assault. El'Nine'eev ti al'Meera Mandragoran is still above in the Tower. Igwayne asks Syreen to leave, but Syreen can't. They look overhead at a purple dome. Igwayne sends all other Eyes Sedai away to hide, while she takes Lee’ahnna and the Wise Ones to hunt the Black Ajah and Mesaana.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Slayer appears behind Pairin Eyebarra. Slayer wants the Dreamspike back. Pairin threatens to destroy it but Slayer knows Pairin doesn't have the strength to do this, although his eyes flicker to Dragonmount behind Pairin. Slayer tells Pairin that Luc deeply hates Pairin. The two rush forward at each other.



Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Gawyn charges into the White Tower and comes across Celark and Mazone, two former Younglings. He tells them to follow him. He reaches Igwayne's room and enters. A Tower maid is held immobile by Air inside, having set off Igwayne's traps. Gawyn rushes to check on the sleeping the sleeping form of Igwayne when he is attacked by two black blurs. Mazone runs to get more help while Celark helps Gawyn fight the two Bloodknives. The two Bloodknives turn on Celark and kill him. Gawyn plans to defend for as long as he can till help arrives. Gawyn spots Mazones fallen body outside the room. A third blur enters the room and they all attack in unison. 



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin lets his inner wolf free and attacks Slayer. The two fight, using their weapons and changing the surroundings around them to their advantage. Slayer manages to distract Pairin with a life-like statue of himself and cuts the dreamspike free. Slayer grabs the dreamspike and retreats. Pairin follows with Hopper, who has managed to find where the two are fighting.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne hides behind a wall taking a break from the fighting. She spots Evanellein Lorn and Mestra ahead. Igwayne destroys Mestra with a Fire ball and makes Evanellein think she is stupid. Mesaana appears beside Igwayne all wrapped in black. Igwayne begins to question why she is even fighting and realizes that her mind is being manipulated. She shifts to another room. Nine'eev is there and nearly blasts Igwayne. Nine'eev reports that Lee’ahnna and Sewan are still alive and that Nine'eev managed to kill Notori with fire. Igwayne suggests that 19 ter'angreal were stolen which is probably the amount of Black Ajah in Tel'aran'rhiod now. The Wise Ones are still in the fight and seem to be enjoying themselves. Both women move to another area. Igwayne consumes Sedore Dajenna by not channeling but creating fire. The two keep shifting from corridor to corridor. Bair appears telling them their strategy is obvious. They are then attacked by six women.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Slayer races through the Tower, Pairin hot on his heels. Hopper peels off to try and get ahead of him. As Pairin runs through the White Tower he sees Eyes Sedai fighting. He calls out the Igwayne, who tries to hold him in place. Pairin shrugs it off telling her she should not be in the dream. Igwayne tries to again hold Pairin in place with ropes, but Pairin again shrugs them off. An unknown Black sister shoots Balefire at Pairin. He puts his palm up imaging the weave disappearing. It disintegrates the wall behind them. Igwayne tears the wall down on top of the Black sister. Igwayne is incredulous Pairin stopped balefire. Pairin hears Hopper in pain and runs off after his friend.



Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Gawyn has been cut a dozen times in his fight with the Bloodknives. The Bloodknives are wearing him out on purpose, ready to strike when he is his weakest. Gawyn leaps forward and strikes one down. The two renew their onslaught on Gawyn. Gawyn remembers the phrase Kaisea  had said about 'where there is light, there is shadow' and knocks down the lantern in the room, plunging it into darkness. Gawyn waits and then strikes, his blade striking true leaving him with one more assassin. Gawyn can feel himself becoming faint and taps the floor on purpose. The assassin strikes low, hitting him in the side (a variant of Sheathing the Sword). Gawyn strikes high, beheading the final assassin. Gawyn falls to the floor unconscious.



Point of view: Mesaana.


Katerine Alruddin kneels at Mesaana's feet. Masaana lashes her across her back in punishment. Masaana is frustrated with the appearance of the dreamspike. It has stopped her from Traveling out to the area she had selected to battle the Igwayne and her Eyes Sedai. She wants to gain control of the dreamspike, so she can use it against the other Forsaken as well as Igwayne. As she is about to send out Katerine again, she places a weave on her.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin appears in front of Slayer. Slayer holds Hopper in one arm and a knife in the other. Slayer throws Hopper off the side of the building. Pairin leaps at Slayer and they both fall of the ledge. Slayer stabs Pairin in the arm with his knife. Pairin manages to get free of Slayer and land underneath Hopper, catching the wolf. Slayer then sends an arrow, which goes through Hopper and into Pairin's leg. Pairin rushes at Slayer imagining his leg being healed. Slayer tells him it doesn't work this way, knocking him down. Pairin smells terror and sees a nightmare behind Slayer. He drives both of them into the nightmare.





Chapter 38. Wounds.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


The fight continues in earnest in the White Tower. Igwayne al'Veer shifts to a room to the side of a group of Black Ajah and pulls in down on them. Evanellein Lorn is killed in the collapse. Igwayne drops just as she feels channeling behind her. She spots Mesaana draped in her cloak of blackness behind her. Bair rushes past draped in Cadin'sor. Igwayne takes note of Pairin Aybaras presence and how strong he was as well as Bair, who cannot channel. She realizes that Tel'aran'rhiod is all about will. Igwayne shifts to another location and spots Nicola Treehill hiding. Igwayne goes to help her when the ground underneath Nicola is ripped to shreds, killing Nicola with the devastation. A blast shoots towards Igwayne, but Melaine creates a wall in front of Igwayne. They both shift to another area and observe Alviarin Freidhen and Ramola. Igwayne sees a room behind them and plans to ambush them as she did the previous two sisters. She then remembers what Bair had told her about being too predictable. She shifts into the room and prepares for Mesaana to appear. She does and quickly throws some weaves at Igwayne, surprised. Igwayne believes that the weaves won't hit her and then throws a spear at Mesaana. Mesaana tries to block the spear with Air but Igwayne believes it won't slow down, and it impales the woman in the neck. The darkness is whipped away and reveals Katerine Alruddin. Igwayne is sure Katerine is not Mesaana when she feels an A'dam snap around her neck. Mesaana stands beside triumphant. Igwayne stifles down terror at being captured, just like they had Moghedien. Mesaana asks about the Dreamspike. Igwayne refuses and Mesaana starts to torture her through the a'dam. Igwayne refuses to bend to the pain and that the a'dam is even real. It falls off her neck. The two stare at each other trying to impose their will on the other. Igwayne will not bend, she is the Amyrlin Seat of the White Tower. The White Towers legacy has spanned thousands of years and will continue long after Mesaana has gone. She feels something snap and the a'dam drops to the ground. Igwayne takes Mesaana and shifts to where her group are holding out. They are incredulous that Igwayne managed to defeat one of the Forsaken, but Bair recognizes the state that Mesaana is in. While she is still alive, her mind is broken and she can no longer carry out even the simplest of matters. Igwayne reports that the rest of the Black Ajah have fled. She thanks the Wise Ones for their assistance and they all leave tel'aran'rhiod.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin stumbles through a dream of Tarmon Gai'don. Dragonmount is erupting destroying the land. Pairin refuses to let himself be drawn into the dream. He finds Slayer struggling to gain control. Pairin imagines a rift opening under Slayer. Slayer slips hanging onto the ledge. Pairin imagines himself as Azi al'Thone and that he is trying to help someone beside Slayer hanging off the ledge. Slayer grabs hold of Pairin and as he pulls himself up, Pairin grabs the dreamspike. He makes a knife in his other hand and stabs Slayer in the stomach. Pairin can feel the dream about to burst. He pictures a river of lava and throws the Ter'angreal into it. The dream finally bursts revealing the destroyed dreamspike and the normal dream around them. The purple dome disappears. Slayer strides forward kicking Pairin several times. As he starts to lose consciousness he hears Hopper speak to him one last time. He tells him to flee and seek out Noam. The mind winks out for good. Pairin flees.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne awakes to the scene of a massacre. She spots Gawyn Trakand laying on the floor, severely wounded. He asks why the lamps are still on and she tells him she never got his message. Igwayne realizes that if Gawyn hadn't returned she would have been assassinated and Mesaana would still be free. Igwayne does the only thing she can to save Gawyn and Bonds him as her Warder, swearing that this is what she wants.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin awakes weeping. Masuri Sokawa stands above him and Heals his wounds. Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra tells him the gateways are working now and that just about everyone is through. Pairin believes that an army is coming for them and they must leave now. Pairin tells Faile that he lost Hopper for the second time. As he emerges from the tent, he receives a salute from the Far Dareis Mai. The last of the army finally step through the gateway avoiding whatever trap there was out there.



Point of view: Graendal.


Graendal sits with Slayer kneeling before her. She orders the trap to be sprung anyway.





Chapter 39. In the Three-fold Land.






Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha arrives in the Eye’eel Waste. Rather than Traveling straight to Roy'deonne, she runs much of the way. She appreciates the familiarity and constancy of the dust, sweat, sun, and even dangers of the Three-fold Land. As she sets up camp and settles in for dinner, she reflects upon Aviendha the Maiden becoming Aviendha the Wise One and her new role helping lead her people through their most trying time. She is caught off guard by a woman in Eye’eel garb suddenly appearing near her camp, almost without a sound. The middle-aged woman asks to join her and introduces herself as Nakomi. 

As they share water and food, Nakomi asks about the Car'a'carn and the wetlands. Aviendha believes the wetlands are very dangerous because it makes the Eye’eel weak and soft. But Nakomi says the wetlands are part of the destiny of the Eye’eel. In a way, the Three-fold Land was named because of the 3 things it did to the Eye’eel. It punished them. It tested their courage. It forged them into a strong people before returning to the wetlands. Aviendha asks from what sept Nakomi comes from and where she is traveling. But, Nakomi evades by saying she is far from her roof and that she cannot give this truth. Instead she turns the topic to wondering about the Eye’eel's great toh for breaking their ancient oath to follow the pacifist Way of the Leaf. Aviendha replies that the Eye’eel will meet their toh by fighting in the Last Battle of course. Nakomi wonders if the Three-fold Land is the Eye’eel punishment, then what is the point returning after meeting their toh. Aviendha has no answer. 

Meanwhile, curious events continue to occur. The fire seems stronger, dinner is ready faster, and the meal is uncommonly delicious. Nakomi excuses herself to go to the toilet. Aviendha worries about the Eye’eel after the Last Battle. What will be their purpose? After too long a time, she realizes Nakomi has disappeared without a trace. Aviendha falls into a troubled sleep.





Chapter 40. A Making.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra wakes feeling grief for the loss of Hopper. Faile Eyebarra tries to comfort him by stating that he destroyed the Dreamspike. Pairin still can't help but feel that something is still wrong. Pairin calls over Jerrard Arganda and Bertain Gallenne and they study a map of where a possible ambush could be set up along the Jehannah Road. Arganda points to the heights above where an old riverbed runs along. There are also some old ruins along this path. Sulin is sent through a Gateway to check on where the Whitecloaks have set up camp. Pairin goes to the forge and relieves Aemin. He begins to hammer out some horseshoes. After completing them he sets his sights on a more difficult task, although he is unsure on what that may be. Fager Neald offers to keep the forge at a constant temperature. 

Pairin begins to beat three pieces of metal together. Jewr Grady notes that Neald is doing something strange with the One Power. Neald then asks the six Wise Ones, Grady and Masuri Sokawa to Link with him. During the forging process Pairin reflects on his life and how its changed. He still doesn't feel like a leader and has asked nobody to ever follow him. Pairin finally realizes that he is creating a massive hammer. He bangs a leaping wolf on the side of the new hammer with one last blow of his old hammer. The leaping wolf looks like Hopper. Pairin turns to find a massive crowd watching him. Neald and the rest of the circle all fall to the ground exhausted. 

Pairin asks Wil al'Seen to find him the Wolf-Head Banner. Pairin tells the crowd that he never asked for them to follow them, but he will now accept their oaths and become their leader. He asks Wil to raise the wolfhead banner and to never take it down. Pairin promises Faile that he no longer complain about his responsibility. Pairin asks what Neald had done and Neald is not sure but says that it felt right. Pairin asks for what He who soars is in the Old Tongue. Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron replies Mah'alleinir and Pairin decides to name his hammer this. Pairin realizes that his army has been herded like sheep and that the area that Arganda and Gallenne pointed to would in-fact be the perfect place for an ambush. He sends orders to the Asha'man to create a Gateway for the entire army to travel through as quietly and as quickly as possible. Pairin leaves behind his old blacksmith hammer and now leads with the hammer of a king.



Point of view: Faile Eyebarra.


Faile reflects on how magnificent Pairin looked making Mah'alleinir. Berelain tells Faile that it has been many centuries since a Power-wrought weapon has been made. She deduces that Neald must have the Talent for it. Berelain wonders if he can make more of these weapons in time for Tarmon Gai'don. She then asks Faile if she can intercede with Pairin's plan. Faile is confused. Berelain tells her that Pairin is setting up a perfect ambush for the Children of the Light. Again Faile is stunned at how little Berelain understands of Pairin's character. Faile replies that Berelain and Pairin would be a terrible match. Berelain believes she was promised to Pairin by Rand when they were both placed together on this mission. Berelain only wants to hold ties to the Dragon Reborn so as to keep Mayene independent. Faile wonders out loud what advantages Galadedrid Dawmodred would bring. Berelain replies that he is half-brother to Queen Elayne Trakand of Andor. There would be a link if Rand married Elayne. Again Berelain asks Faile to help her intercede on Pairin's plan.  



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


The army rides unified for the first time, wolf-head banner flying above all others. Pairin struggles with being Lord Pairin. He speaks to Elyas Machera on finally finding his balance between the wolf and the man. As the men pass through the gateway they salute Pairin, proud of their lord and his connection to wolves. Elyas takes his leave from Pairin. He is planning to go with the wolves for the Last Hunt. 



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Galaad is woken by Trom. Scouts have reported that Eyebarra's army has appeared above their camp. Galaad sends the message to get all men dressed inside their tents and not alert the enemy that they are aware of their presence. Galaad is shocked that his choices have led him to this point now, probably dead before the Last Battle. Jaret Byar enters and accuses Galaad of leading them to their death. Galaad decides his best strategy is to drive his pikemen up the slope. Shields are of the upmost importance. 



Point of view: Faile Eyebarra.


Pairin orders Faile, Berelain and Alliandre Maritha Kigarin to the back of the army. Berelain begs Pairin not to attack. For some reason Pairin is focused on the road down the Jehannah rather than on the Whitecloak camp. Gaul reports that the Whitecloaks are aware Pairin's army has arrived. The Whitecloaks burst from their tents running for their horses. Pairin orders his archers ready. Next he orders Bertain Gallenne and Jerrard Arganda to ready the cavalry to sweep in front of the archers. Berelain begins to panic. Pairin is confused as keeping Galaad alive is the reason why he is here. Jewr Grady calls out he can sense men channeling. Out of the fog down below Trollocs begin to emerge. Neald and Grady send forward a ball of light. It illuminates an entire army of Trollocs and Myrddraal. Pairin orders his archers to fire.





Chapter 41. An Unexpected Ally.






Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Galadedrid Dawmodred and Dain Bornhauld run waiting for the arrows. They hear the distant bow twang and wait. However, no arrows fall anywhere near them. The two are confused. A call goes out, "Trollocs". They look forward and see the a Trolloc army being bombarded by arrows from above. Galaad organizes his men into formation. Jaret Byar gallops up exclaiming that Pairin Eyebarra has brought the Trollocs. Bornhauld is confused as what reason would he have to bring this many Trollocs and then slaughter them. Byar tells them the timing of Pairin and the Trolloc army showing up at the same time is convenient. Galaad wants to keep some pike at the foot of the slope just in case Pairin does decide to attack them.



Point of view: Faile Eyebarra.


Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra wants to know how Pairin knew about the Trollocs. Pairin realized they were being herded into an ambush point. Enemy infiltrators among the refugees claimed the way ahead was impassable, turning Basel Gill off course. The dome prevented  gateway travel. Also, Pairin suspected a Portal Stone was buried underground the ruins. Pairin realized they'd escaped the ambush, but the Whitecloak's and he suspects a Forsaken may lead the attack. But, Grady only senses a moderately strong channeller off and on, likely jumping back and forth to bring fists of Trollocs. Trollocs push closer to the rise of the slope and Pairin sends Faile, Berelain, and Alliandre back to safety. If he's overwhelmed, he'll retreat into gateways. Although the Children of the Light abandoned the Two Rivers , Pairin refuses to abandon anyone to the Trollocs. Faile leans forward and hugs Pairin, thanking him for being the man he is. Arrows continually bombard the Trolloc army, but the arrows are running low. Trollocs finally crest the slope and Pairin starts to attack them.



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Galaad continues to cut down Trollocs. His force is not doing well and they are slowly being pushed back. A Trolloc cuts down his horse. Galaad manages to jump free but snaps his ankle. Galaad is nearly overwhelmed when Bornhauld and other Children drive the Trollocs back. Galaad realizes the Trollocs are surrounding them and pinning them against the side of the hill. The Children's defenses are crumbling with their fighting tactics no better than any other men. The Light does not protect them and they are slowly being beaten. Some are even running away in terror.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin swings Mah'alleinir which burns any Trolloc skin it touches. Pairin's army fights well, suffering few casualties. Pairin sees the Whitecloaks slowly backed against the hill. Pairin order his channelers to prioritize attacking Myrddraal. Grady reports the enemy channeler had not engaged in battle. His force has managed to drive the Trollocs off the hill rise. Pairin decides he must help the Whitecloaks. Gallenne argues against this, as the riding down the slope could be treacherous. Pairin is determined to not leave them unaided and asks for Gallenne's help. Gallenne agrees.



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Galaad exhausted, notices a shock to the Trolloc horde. He hears them speaking to each other in some guttural language. He then watches as a force of cavalry ride down the slope, smashing into the side of the Trolloc army, led by Pairin himself. Galaad desperately tries to rally his men towards Pairin's army. His twisted ankle snaps on and he falls to the ground. A Trolloc is about to finish Galaad off when Eyebarra rides through, smashing the Trolloc away with his massive hammer. Pairin gets off his horse and ushers Galaad onto it. Pairin's charge down the slopes had broken the Trolloc army up, with groups starting to flee. Galaad presumes that Pairin's maneuver will effect his decision on Pairin's fate. Pairin surprises the man by affirming this. Galaad realizes that Pairin is a straight-forward trust worthy guy and that they are now allies. He names Pairin's punishment,



Pairin must pay five hundred crowns to the victims family and that he must fight with all his strength at Tarmon Gai'don.


The two men shake hands. Jaret Byar steps behind Pairin, intending to stab him in the back. However, his blow doesn't fall, having been run through by Bornhauld. Byar drops to the ground dead. Bornhauld tells them it wasn't the right thing to do. He looks at Pairin hateful and walks off. The battle is starting to calm down as the last of the Trollocs are defeated.





Chapter 42. Stronger than Blood.






Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Gawyn Trakand marvels at being able to sense Igwayne al'Veer in his head now. Another assassin had been found and had killed a couple of soldiers and a Warder before being taken down herself. Igwayne enters and she informs him the Mesaana had been masquerading as Danelle, an Eyes Sedai of the Brown Ajah. She tells Gawyn that the Shawn'chin assassins had killed all her nearby guards and was waiting for her to emerge once the maid had tripped her traps. The messenger Gawyn had sent was found dead. Gawyn will now sleep in her outside quarters. He asks if they should marry, but Igwayne has to much to do and has not spoken to her parents about this yet. As Gawyn leaves he notices a drape covering the dead mean from the assassination attempt. He farewells his two former Younglings and then studies the Bloodknives. Gawyn spots the black ring Ter'angreal on all three assassins. He slips them off their fingers and pockets them.



Point of view: LAN Mandragoran.


LAN Mandragoran feels different emotions through the Bond and assumes that he is now Warder to Nine'eev al'Meera. He arrives at the Silverwall Keeps with his company. The Golden Crane flies over one of the towers and a gathering of thousands of people wait around the fortress. LAN is worried that one of his crew has broken their oath but Andere assures him that this is where LAN must pass through. LAN's group conspicuously make their way through those that are gathered. Many wear the Hadori although there are many others from the Borderlands that are also present. LAN notices some who even wear the Golden Crown on their shoulder. Many greet LAN with Tai'shar Malkier but his identity is still hidden to them.

LAN just about makes it through the other side when somebody above him calls out his name. The voice belongs to Kaisel Noramaga and he makes his way over to LAN. Kaisel tells him that both he and Prince Kendral plan to ride with LAN. LAN tells him he should be riding with his nations army but Kaisel replies that his ancestors made an oath, stronger than blood to protect and defend. Kaisel tells LAN that his wife told him to wait for LAN here and that although he may be disguised, Mandarb never would be. Realizing Nyneave has outmaneuvered him, LAN gives in and asks for the Golden Crane to be raised for Tarmon Gai'don. A call goes up, then a cheer, then a roar.





Chapter 43. Some Tea.






Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Galadedrid Dawmodred asks Pairin Eyebarra if the Asha'man are actually free of the Taint. Galaad had accepted Healing from the Eyes Sedai, to set precedence for the rest of his men. The rest of the Children of the Light have the choice to either accept Healing or not. Pairin rushes over to some fallen Trollocs and finds Child Jerum Nus buried underneath. Galaad vouches for the unconscious man to be Healed. Pairin offers to transport the Children to the Field of Merrilor through gateways and fight in Tarmon Gai'don. Galaad gives his oath to accept Pairin as their military commander till after the Last Battle is done. Galaad sits to rest after being caught up in Ta'veren need.



Point of view: Alliandre Maritha Kigarin.


Alliandre Maritha Kigarin cuts bandages for the injured. She overhears Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron speaking to Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra. Berelain accepts that she was wrong about Pairin's character. Alliandre is not fooled by their friendship ploy. Alliandre then speaks to Berelain privately. Berelain is pretending to be more upset about being wrong about Pairin than she actually is. This is so Faile will think of Berelain as less of a threat. Berelain only ever wanted to have political links to Rand in order to help her country survive. These marriages are never about romance though, but political gain. Galaad arrives and he and Berelain can't keep their eyes off each other. He thanks her for pleading for his life before the battle. They move off to cut some bandages together, and Alliandre wonders if this particular union could be political as well as romantic. Alliandre then steals a silk shirt for herself. 





Chapter 44. A Backhanded Request.






Point of view: Morgays Trakand.


Morgays Trakand walks through the camp. She nods to Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra and realizes that there is a rift between them now. Morgays looks at the newly joined Children of the Light section amazed. Morgays is unsure of her place now. She comes across Martyn Tallanvor, who is planning to ride into Kaymlin. He tells her that she needs to announce herself to Elayne Trakand as it is still assumed Morgays is dead, and her now showing up alive may affect Elayne's authority. Morgays confirms she is planning to visit her daughter. Tallanvor regrets telling Morgays that he would leave her and pledges his heart and sword to her forever. However, he is still bitter than duty will always be a wedge between the two. Morgays questions why, when Tarmon Gai'don is so close. She steps forward and kisses him. Lini spots them and demands that Pairin Eyebarra marries them right now. Tallanvor asks Morgays to be his wife and she accepts his proposal.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin inspects a forest that has just suddenly died in one night. Fager Neald works in the forges producing more Power-wrought weapons. The Eye’eel have demanded their spears also be Power-wrought. The last of the non-combatants in Pairin's army are leaving through gateway to Kaymlin. He also sends a request to meet with Elayne. Pairin spots Faile and waves her over. Pairin confides he believes Bavin Rockshaw is not particularly honest and that Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron seems to be spending more time with Galadedrid Dawmodred. She has also proclaimed publicly that nothing happened between her and Pairin. Morgays and her group approach Pairin and ask him to marry her and Tallanvor. Morgays agrees to speak for Pairin when they meet with Elayne. Galaad and Berelain arrive for the ceremony, side by side. Morgays pledges her undying love for Tallanvor and her oath to be his wife. Tallanvor does the same. Pairin abruptly states they are married. Faile then seeks out Bavin Rockshaw to acquire ale for the ceremony. Pairin surveys his camp in wonder. One of the largest groups was the Wolf Guard. These were former mercenaries and refugees who are now being trained by Dannil Lewin and Tamlin al'Thor. An acorn then strikes Pairin in the head. Pairin walks over to the oak tree nearby when a sack appears. 



I caught a badger, want to let it go on the village green?I caught a badger, want to let it go on the village green?


Pairin steps round to find Matrim Cauthon, all dressed in fine clothing. The two embrace in a big hug. Mat warns Pairin that assassins are after both of them and to meet him in The Happy Throng in Kaymlin through one of the gateways. He then runs off. Pairin releases the badger in the sack.





Chapter 45. A Reunion.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne Trakand wakes. She wasn't able to go to get her dream Ter'angreal to work. Elayne remembers Igwayne al'Veer sending to her via dream that Mesaana has been captured and that Gawyn Trakand had arrived in time. Elayne can feel the warmth from Rand coming through the Bond. She has the entire nations bellfounders working on creating more Dragons. The majority are now kept in a secret warehouse in Kaymlin. Elayne can feel her babies move inside her. Melfane Dawlish confirms that there are two heartbeats meaning Elayne is indeed having twins. She then meets with Die’lin Taravin and Halwin Norry. Norry runs through the state of the nation. Some unexpected food stores were found in Kaymlin, however, food is running low in the city. House Arawn, House Sarand and House Marne cannot afford to pay for the prisoners ransoms as their coffers are bare. Tahlmahness Delovinde has agreed to send some of the Band of the Red Hand to Kai'rienne in order to lend support to Elayne moving for the Sun Throne. Die’lin warns that it cannot seem like Elayne will subsume Kai'rienne into Andor. Somehow Elayne must show that the Cairhienin will be treated as equals to Andorans. Norry reports that there a plenty of rumors springing up about Elayne and that if she moves for the Sun Throne there could be rebellion. Elayne suspects that the Cairhienin nobles who were mostly neutral to Rand as the ones starting the rumors, as they would be seen as the mostly likely to have a shot at the throne. Elayne thinks about Dyelins place. She has done so much for Elayne but will have to take a few steps back now. Elayne is concerned about the Andoran invasion Chesmal Emry was talking about. Birgitte Silverbow strides in the room with two guests. The first is Galadedrid Dawmodred, who Elayne embraces warmly. The second puts down her hood to reveal her mother, Morgays Trakand. Morgays greets Elayne as Your Majesty. Elayne is concerned that now Morgays is back, will Elayne still be Queen? She then clicks that Morgays has renounced the Throne. Tensions are lifted knowing that there will be no potential House Trakand vs House Trakand for the Throne. Morgays tells Elayne that she had been held by the Children of the Light. Galaad then fills her in on everything that had happened to him and that he is now the Lord Captain Commander of the Children. Elayne then fills everyone on the Succession War. Galaad then takes his leave. Elayne asks Die’lin and Norry to publish that Morgays is still alive and that she has abdicated from the Crown. The two then also leave. Morgays congratulates Elayne of becoming Queen. Elayne tells her that Rand is the father of her unborn babies. Elayne also confirms Lord Gaebril was Rahvin and that he used Compulsion on her. Elayne says that the nation will celebrate her return, but due to the things she did while under Rahvin's control  it would be best for her to not live in the capital. Morgays asks perhaps the Two Rivers with Pairin Eyebarra. Elayne agrees but is furious with Pairin and his "rebellion". Morgays tells Elayne of her entire story and how Pairin had a hand in bringing her home safely. 



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha marvels at Roy'deonne. The city was so different now that Rand had taken away the mist that hid the city and created the lake, now called Tsodrelle'Aman.  Aviendha is concerned that now all Eye’eel are aware of their secret past, Roy'deonne will no longer matter. Rand had caused so many problems unaware, but she still loved him, specifically for his desire to be strong. She thinks of the changes that were occurring to the Eye’eel and that certain traditions, such as living in the Eye’eel Waste would have to change as well. Aviendha also reflects on the Shawn'chin capturing Wise Ones and making them Da'MAW'nee. She then thinks of her own life. She wishes to stay with Rand after Tarmon Gai'don, who would probably live in the wet-lands. Aviendha surveys the perfect city, scarred in some places from Rand's battle with Asmodean. The ultimate city of peace. She braces herself to step through the glass columns, unsure what she will see and if it will now have any meaning for her people.





Chapter 46. Working Leather.






Point of view: Androl Genhald.


Androl Genhald is in his workshop, crafting with leather. He contemplates life in the Black Tower. He has only been promoted to Dedicated due to Logain Ablar approaching Rand al'Thor about it. Though he is extremely weak in the One Power, he is extremely gifted in using Gateways. Androl finishes his armband and walks through the Tower grounds. He stops by a group of Two Rivers folks who are creating a canal with the One Power. Androl steepens the canal with his very limited usage of Earth. Trost asks if any news has been heard about the missing Logain. As Androl is discussing this, he notices the shadows around him starting to reach out to him. He quickly lets go of the Source and the shadows disperse just as quickly. Androl finally finds his target group and gives the armband to Jonneth Dowtry. The group consisting of Arlen Nalaam, Taril Canler and Emarin are leveling a hill for farming. The group discuss the obvious division that is starting to occur within the Tower, Logain's men vs Mazrim Taim's men. It seems that even though there are supposed to be no favorites, M'Hael's men are promoted faster and receive rewards more often. Coteren saunters over and humiliates Androl. Androl's group are furious with Coteren and seize Sai'deen. The group that was being watched over by Coteren stand and face Androl's group, also seizing siedeen. Androl manages to diffuse the situation and everyone moves away. Nalaam mumbles some gibberish, believing he is speaking normally. Androl is thankful that Emarin and Jonneth will never have to deal with the taint of siedeen. Androl's group continue to discuss M'Hael's division and how all these men who receive special lessons learn so much quicker in the One Power. Varil Nensen was loyal to Logain, but after taking the special lessons, become one of M'Hael's men and that more and more men are doing this. Taim's men have also spread rumors about the Dragon abandoning them and that he has gone mad. Emarin defends Rand, revealing he has met him before.  Nalaam tells everyone that there is something different about Nensen and that Kash suddenly arrived and has become powerful so quickly. Androl's group look to Androl as their leader. He formulates a plan to seek out other men that can join their group, such as Dafid Norley and Morly Hardlin. They then need to track down where Logain has gone and oppose the M'Hael's division.





Chapter 47. A Teaching Chamber.






Point of view: Faile Bashere.


Pairin Eyebarra, Faile Bashere and their procession arrive in Kaymlin via gateway to meet with Queen of Andor, Elayne Trakand. Galadedrid Dawmodred declines meeting with Elayne, having previously caught up with her. Pairin and his army make their way to the palace. Elayne proclaims her gratitude for returning her mother and declares a day of celebration for her safe return. Elayne asks "Lady Bashere" and "Master Eyebarra" to request a boon in return for their gift to Andor. Faile asks to discuss this boon in private setting with her. They discuss the issue of Two Rivers and Pairin raising the flag of Manetheren. Pairin and Elayne come to an agreement over his title as High Lord of the Two Rivers.



Point of view: Fortuona Athaem Devi Paendrag.


Fortuona's der'sul'dam, Melitene, makes Suffa perform the weave for Traveling. Fortuona proclaims that all the marath'damane must be leashed, they are key to holding lands on both sides of ocean and the Last Battle. She also says "The Dragon Reborn will serve the Crystal Throne". She wants every damane to be recalled to city and train them in Traveling. She plans to attack White Tower with all their might.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin shares his story about Malden, the Prophet, Alliandre and Galaad with Mat and Thom and they fill him on their experiences. They discuss Verin's letter and Mat says he will open it onces he is back from the Tower of Ghenjai. Mat and Thom comment on how much Pairin has changed from soft-spoken, unsure boy. Mat tells Pairin that he is leaving soon and asks if Pairin could lend them a gateway. Mat tells Pairin about Moraine being alive, her letter to Thom and that he is going to rescue her from Tower of Ghenjai.





Chapter 48. Near Avendesora.






Point of view: Aviendha.


Sitting beneath Avendesora, Aviendha decided to study the Glass Pillar "ter'angreal", but backed off after realizing it was beyond her Talents, and incomprehensible to a single person. Deciding to leave Roy'deonne, her first step led to a disturbing vision from the Glass Pillars of the Eye’eel's future, showing the destruction of the Eye’eel people. Shocked and afraid of what she would find, Aviendha nevertheless decided to walk through the Pillars again.



Point of view: Malidra.


The First vision is seen through the eyes of Malidra who is a scavenger. She is murdered by a Lightbearer with a Lightstick for feeding off of their garbage. As she dies the Lightbearer mutters "bloody Eye’eel".



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha is confused about the vision, as it contradicts history. The Eye’eel in the Age of Legends were servants, not scavengers. Knowing that she needs to get to the bottom of this mystery she takes her next step.



Point of view: Norlesh.


The Second vision is seen through the eyes of Norlesh. Norlesh and the rest of her family go to those of the Raven Empire and offer them rocks they are seeking. They are turned down as they are required not to trade with Eye’eel or risk losing their charter allowing them to mine in the area. As Norlash sits down with her family dejected, she realizes her infant Garlvan has died during the walk.



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha is beside herself with grief. The Eye’eel without honor, reduced to a begging broken race. Aviendha steels herself and takes the next step.



Point of view: Tava.


The Third vision is seen through the eyes of Tava. She is part of a group of Eye’eel being attacked in a hold, by Raken with Shawn'chin using Lightsticks (Assumed to be a sort of musket). The Eye’eel are mostly destroyed and abandon the hold.



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha finally realizes this is not the past like she had assumed, but the future. One where the Shawn'chin have utterly and comprehensively defeated the Eye’eel in war. Sobbing she steps forward.





Chapter 49. Court of the Sun.






Point of view: Ladalin.


The Fourth vision is seen through the eyes of Ladalin who is an Eye’eel Wise One descended from the dragon. During a meeting with the other Wise Ones and Clan chiefs they learn the White Tower has fallen. Jorshem states that the war with the Ravens has been lost. Ladalin tells the others that to surrender would be the end of the Eye’eel as they would be made gai'shain. They decide to retreat back to the Three-Fold Land.



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha is appalled at the lack of honor the Eye’eel of the future display. She carries on walking.



Point of view: Oncala.


The Fifth vision is seen through the eyes of Oncala who is Aviendha's granddaughter. Oncala and Hehyal meet with Queen Talana who is Elayne Trakand's granddaughter. The Eye’eel show plans for an attack on Andor which they stole from the Ebou Dari palace. They didn't tell her that it was only going to be used if Andor entered the war. (This leads to the Shawn'chin gaining the dragons and thus Lightsticks.)



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha is disgusted with Oncala, and her hereditary tie to herself. She takes another step.



Point of view: Padra.


The Final vision is of Aviendha's daughter Padra who attacks a group of Shawn'chin who wondered into their borders after the peace has been signed between wetlander nations and the Shawn'chin, (but not the Eye’eel). Padra and her siblings Alarch, Janduin and Marinna are part of a war committee with the Clan chief's and Wise Ones. They decide that because the Shawn'chin hadn't released their Wise Ones and the Eye’eel aren't part of the Dragon's Peace the Eye’eel are going to march to war against the Shawn'chin. This future also confirms one of Min's visions about Aviendha indeed having quadruplets to Rand. 

The strange thing about them mentioned by Min is (possibly) that they could channel since childhood and perpetually embrace the True Source. Though Padra is young, Aviendha is not present in this vision that can be interpreted in three ways: she is dead, she is gone to follow Rand or, simply, vision cannot show the seer itself. Each of the quadruplets looks different, Alarch has dark hair, Janduin blond.



Point of view: Aviendha.


Stepping out of the pillars Aviendha resolves to do all she can to prevent this future from coming to pass and leaves Roy'deonne to rejoin with her people.





Chapter 50. Choosing Enemies.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne Trakand sits in her throne room listening to the distant booms of the Dragons. She has Birgitte Silverbow taking the Cairhienin nobles around the castle to witness demonstrations of the dragons. The Andoran High Seats sit in the throne room, enjoying refreshments. Charlz Guybon brings through the three High Seat prisoners Ahrymilla Marne, Elenia Sarand and Naean Arawn. Just as the prisoners are brought to their knees before Elayne, the Cairhienin nobles return to witness Elaynes judgement. The Queen strips House Marne, Sarand and Arawn of all titles and estates and their lands are now forfeit to the Crown. The three women are horrified. The nobles would prefer execution, as this means the lands and House is passed on to the heir. Birgitte then leads the Cairhienin nobles forward, with Bertome Say’gahn and Lorstrum Aesnan the most prominent. Bertrome is troubled by this punishment as his cousin was Colavaere Say’gahn. This elevated Bertrome to High Seat and although not open rebellious against Rand, was a very private critic of him. Lorstrum rose to prominence after Rand disappeared from Cairhein.  Again he never rebelled against Rand, but never allied with him. Rumor says that he is considering making a play for the Sun Throne. Ailil Riatin is present, although not High Seat due to her brother Toram Riatin holding that position.  She is a very vocal supporter of Elayne. The rest of the nobles gathered are of middling power. Elayne asks if the Cairheinin enjoyed the dragon demonstrations. She then asks if Cairhein would enjoy the strength and stability that Andor displays. Elayne then offers Andoran estates just confiscated by the Crown to some of the Cairheinin nobles. The throne room goes dead quiet. Elayne creates multiple bonds between Andor and Cairhein by giving some of these Andoran estates to Cairheinin nobles. It would also seem less likely that she would be seen as trying to steal Cairheinin land and titles when she moves for the Sun Throne. Lorstrum and Bertrome catch onto her plan and agree that such alliances would be greatly appreciated. Elayne plans to give part of an estate to Ailil for her support. Elayne then calls forward Elenia Sarand. Elayne pledges to give some of the land revitalized from her alliance with Ghealdan to Elenia and her husband.   Unfortunately Elayne can't make these decisions for both Andor and Cairhein. Bertrome and Lorstrum pledge to give Elayne the support she needs to arrange this situation. Elayne gives them an hour.

Later Birgitte sits confused at what had happened. Morgays Trakand calls the move brilliant. Both Morgays and Die’lin Taravin explain that giving Andoran land to the Cairhenin is a bribe. Elayne will not be seen by the Cairheinin as a conqueror, but rather creates strong bonds between the nations. Elayne also taking the Sun Throne would mean that she holds Cairheinin land. She will not be the only person to own land in both countries now. Die’lin warns that Lorstrum took the lands not as a bribe, but rather a chance at taking the thrones in both countries. Both him and Bertrome are the most powerful Cairheinin nobles now that Dobraine Taborwin has gone   and will need to be watched. Both will probably make a move for the thrones of both countries, but will wait for some time while the countries stabilize. Elayne plans to play them off one another during that time to limit their strength. However, in the present both men are now massive allies of Elayne and should have the power to orchestrate giving Elayne the crown. The former High Seat prisoners will be given some land out of Elaynes own Cairheinin estates with a promise of a fresh start. Birgitte is concerned that Elayne will be surrounded by enemies, but Elayne retorts that it is just as well she has Birgitte around as her Warder.





Chapter 51. A Testing.






Point of view: Min Farshaw.


Min holds Callandor. Rand stands there looking at the sword when a vision appears above him:



A glowing sword gripped in a black hand


Rand takes the sword back and sheathes it across his back. He carries Justice at his side. Min warns Rand about Callandor's flaw and the possibility of it being used against him. Rand is well aware of this fact. He asks Jahar Narishma to make a gateway to where he plans to meet with the Borderlander leaders. Rand asks Naeff on any word from the Black Tower. None has arrived. He asks Naeff learn the Mirror of Mists to disguise himself, Travel to the Black Tower and tell the men loyal to Logain Ablar that they are men, and not weapons. Rand is aware that something is wrong there and him going there in person may be walking into a trap. Rand asks Cadsuane Melaidhrin to be ready to open a gateway once in Far Madding. She tells him that you cannot channel in Far Madding. Rand retorts that the Well in her Paralis-net should contain enough of the One Power. Rand wore the first ever male paralis-net as Lews Therin Telamon. Cadsuane intends to argue calling him boy, but Rand interrupts telling her that he lived for 400 years before dying. He is the only male Eyes Sedai this side of the Light and just as old as the Forsaken. Rand's group Travel to Far Madding. Rand tells the group the history behind Far Madding. Min is concerned that with all the memories Rand now has in his head, he may not be the same person he was. Rand tells her that he feels more like himself than he has a in a great deal of time. He now has all these memories because he is Lews Therin and always was. The Dark One nearly broke Rand, but with his better bringing up this time by Tamlin al'Thor, Rand managed to avoid this fate. The channelers feel the change when they ride through the Guardians perimeter. The group is met by a Borderlander escort. They finally come face to face with the Borderlander rulers, their entire army arrayed out behind them, weapons at the ready. Min sees some more visions above the rulers:



Tenobia si Bashere Kazadi has a bloody, shining spear above her. Ethenielle Kirukon Materasu has doves; she will be wed soon. The other two have swords and shields above them, they will fight soon.


Min is unsure whether they will fight now, or later in Tarmon Gai'don. Rand steps forward to greet the rulers. Queen Ethenielle takes the lead, steps forward to greet Rand and slaps him hard across the face. Rand tells his Far Dareis Mai escorts to stand down. King Easar Togita is next and gives Rand an almighty backhand. This bloodies Rand's lip. Queen Tenobia comes forward and slaps him hard across the face and finally King Paitar Nachiman steps up. He touches Rand's bleeding lip before swinging a massive backhand into Rand;s face. This knocks Rand to his knees. Min runs forward to comfort Rand, asking why they would do this when he came in peace. Paitar replies that his coming to the world has caused anything but peace. Cadsuane replies that the prophecies have said what the the Dragon Reborn would do what needed to be done. Presuming he is the Dragon Tenobia retorts. Rand slides Calandor free asking if this is enough evidence that he is the Dragon. Paiter steps forward and asks Rand a question he must answer. The entire Borderland behind hi is on full alert, weapons at the ready. Min realizes that Paitar too close to Rand, hand ready on his sword hilt. 



How did Tellindal Tirraso dieHow did Tellindal Tirraso die
Rand's reply She was a clerk during the Age of Legends. Demandred, when he came for me after founding the Eighty and One...She fell in the fighting, lightning from the sky...Her blood on my hands.....How do you know that name!She was a clerk during the Age of Legends. Demandred, when he came for me after founding the Eighty and One...She fell in the fighting, lightning from the sky...Her blood on my hands.....How do you know that name!


Paitar nods and relaxes. Queen Ethenielle greets Rand as the Dragon Reborn.



Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin.


Cadsuane sits in a tent with Rand and the Borderland rulers. Rand is surrounded by the Borderlander army and 13 Eyes Sedai, but seems quite at home. She realizes he has changed is is proud of him....a little. King Paitar explains about his question, which is a prophecy handed down through the monarch line of Arafel. His great ancestor Reo Myershi originally heard it.  Rand is concerned with the timing, if this meeting had happened earlier, he would not have had access to those memories and things would not have ended well. Balefire would have have been returned after those slaps. Tenobia retorts the Guardians would have protected them, but Rand replies it blocks the One Power only. Cadsuane is confused by this comment.  If the rulers had fallen to Rand, the army had orders to attack. They Borderlanders had come south to seek out Rand, and when they heard of Paitar's prophecy, they decided that they would use this to test the Dragon Reborn. However their progress was slowed down by the snows. They ask if their Eyes Sedai could learn how to Travel. Rand accepts on the condition they swear oaths to him. The rulers are not happy with this condition. Rand tells them that he is meeting with all the monarchs of the world tomorrow and then he will go to Shay'ole Ghoul to break the remaining seals. Without Rand's oaths, they will remain hundred of leagues away while Tarmon Gai'don rages on. The rulers are stunned. Rand tells them that their own prophecy says that he will break what must be broken, he saved Maradon already, swear to him or let others fight in their place. As Rand leaves the tent he asks if he could apologize to Hurin.  Cadsuane looks at the rulers and knows Rand has them under his banner.





Chapter 52. Boots.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne Trakand rides into Kai'rienne (city) flanked by Birgitte Silverbow. Both her and Birgitte wear a Silver foxhead medallion copy. Elayne is struggling to make more copies without having the original to study. She keeps looking to the south where Rand is. Elayne can feel the warmth from him and that he is preparing for something. The signing of the Dragon's Peace is to occur tomorrow. They are met by a large army of Cairhienin troops. Bertome Say’gahn and Lorstrum Aesnan sit at the front. As Elayne rides through the city she can still spot fire-damaged walls from the Shaido.  Alise Tenjile who is with Elayne, places a weave around their group that will offer some protection from archers. Lorstrum rides up beside Elayne and warns her of rumors about her ascension. Elayne suspects these rumors initially came from him. As she makes her way to the palace, she passes the people lined on the street to bear witness. There are some who are hostile but most are pleased to have her as their future queen. They were waiting for a monarch after the king died  and Rand left.  They finally approach the Sun Palace. Elayne notices the broken wing where the attempt on Rand's life had occurred. Elayne is delighted that her plan to be escorted into the palace by the Cairhienin army is working. She is met at the foot of the stairs by Sashalle Anderly and Samitsu Tamagowa, the two that Rand had left in-charge of Kai'rienne. Sashalle decrees that the Lord Dragon gives up all rights to the land. All control is now handed over to Elayne and the stewardship is dissolved. Elayne makes her way into the throne room. She spots alcoves where treasures were missing due to the Eye’eel taking their fifth.  Elayne enters the throne room and walks up to the Sun Throne. The Cairhienin line up, her supporters first and then the rest arranged by Dayes Day'marr. As Elayne is about to sit, Birgitte quickly searches the throne and it's cushion. She finally finds a needle with black poison on the tip, hidden in the cushion. This was the one definite place an assassin knew Elayne would be. To save face, Lorstrum decrees that it must have been an assassination attempt on the Lord Dragon. Because Lorstrum is Elayne's biggest supporter, the shame of an assassination attempt falls on him. He is now indebted to Elayne and knows it. Birgitte, then sits in the chair to make sure there are no more unknown "surprises". The nobles are shocked at this and Elayne is mortified. Birgitte gets up and confirms that the chair is now safe. Elayne states that Andor and Kai'rienne are now completely allied. What she does now, are the wishes of the Dragon. She then sits. Elayne's first command as Queen is to gather the entire army, as they march to the Field of Merrilor. Every man is to be conscripted into the army, as well as any willing women. She also wants to meet with every bellfounder in the city. Tarmon Gai'don approaches and the coronation feast can wait till after the Last Battle.



Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Matrim Cauthon now wears a red scarf in memory of all those taken by the Gholam. He makes his way into his tent that is full of papers, such as his agreement to be employed by Elayne. There is also news from Tear and Illian stating that a new Shawn'chin Empress has ascended. Mat wonders if the Shawn'chin know what they are in for with Tuon as Empress. Setalle Anan enters Mat's tent. She tells him that Joline Maza arrived safely at Tar Vawlyn. Mat asks her what its like to lose access to the One Power. Setalle tries to describe it as something you intensely love, but can never have again, knowing that it is still there. She asks Mat about his dislike or Eyes Sedai and nobles. Mat gives an analogy about boots. Working men have a few pairs of boots and know when to use each set. Life is simple. Nobles have a ton that are for all different events, making it hard to keep track with when to use each set. Mat promises to get access to a gateway for Setalle, once he returns from the Finn. Mat reflects on how to the only way to beat the Finn, is by breaking the rules. He tosses Verin's letter to Mat, unopened on the desk. He refuses to open it until Verin Mathwin arrives back. He makes for the Tower of Ghenjai tomorrow.





Chapter 53. Gateways.






Point of view: Pevara Tazanovni.


Pevara Tazanovni walks through the Black Tower with Javindhra Doraille and Mazrim Taim. All around her men carrying out all sorts of tasks with the One Power. Taim shows the women the partly finished stone wall around the Tower, a guard post situated every fifty feet. Taim states that the women are only allowed to bond Dedicated, no full Asha'man. Javindhra replies they will consider it. Taim tells them to be quick otherwise he will let the other group of White Tower Eyes Sedai outside the Tower select their Warders first. The women have decided to stay longer in the Black Tower to learn more about it's workings. Pevara feels it is almost time to leave, however Javindhra all but refuses to leave at this time, even though Pevara has been placed in charge of the group.  Javindhra is determined to bond full Asha'man. Pevara notices the signs of madness that strikes a number of men within the Tower. She walks alone towards the huts where they live. On one side are the huts where the Bonded Eyes Sedai live. Pevara had heard of methods they had used to control their men. Pevara plans to ask Tarna Feir for help in getting Jahindhra to change her mind. Tarna had expressed the night before that it was time to leave. Pevara enters her hut and tells Tarna about Jahvindhra's plan. Pevara believes that they should bond their Dedicated and leave. Tarna disagrees and thinks they should stay, believing the rebel Eyes Sedai will otherwise get to bond the Asha'man. She looks up and looks Pevara in the eye. Pevara is horrified at what she sees, something has changed about her eyes. They have become cold and her smile looks like it belongs on a corpse. Pevara agrees just to placate the woman and leaves the hut. Earlier this morning the wall hadn't been manned but now Asha'man are stationed at every guard post now. The lifeless chill to Tarna's eyes are frightening. Pevara plans to create a gateway to escape, but the weaves fall apart. She realizes she is now trapped in the Tower.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra wishes Matrim Cauthon's group farewell and good luck. Pairin is stunned to learn that Mworane Dawmodred is still alive. Thom laughs wondering if every farmboy will become a noble. Mat denies being a noble but Thom reminds him about being the Prince of Ravens. Jewr Grady creates a gateway and tells them he will reopen it in this same spot every day right on noon. Mat's group step through the gateway. Pairin's leg had been Healed but he could still feel a shadow of taint where his injury was. All the channelers in Pairin's army have created a gateway. The entire army now walks through it to the Field of Merrilor where Rand will be. Through the other side Pairin sees the entire coalition of nations that Igwayne al'Veer has gathered to oppose Rand's plan of breaking the Seals. Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra asks Pairin if it is enough to oppose Rand. Pairin has no intention of opposing Rand as he believes breaking the seals first before reforming new ones is the correct method to be used. Pairin shouts to his men,



Rand sent us away to search for an enemy. We return to him with allies. Onward to the Last Battle!Rand sent us away to search for an enemy. We return to him with allies. Onward to the Last Battle!


The call is passed down the men and they give a loud cheer when they hear it. Pairin wants to pick a camp site that is situated away from other nations. Aravine Carnel decided to stay with Pairin rather than returning with the other refugees to Amadicia. She is now his camp steward, liaising between the different factions in his army. As Pairin's factions ride past him he salutes each leader and their men. Galadedrid Dawmodred and Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron ride side by side. Alliandre Maritha Kigarin stops by Pairin, asking why he doesn't ride. Pairin tells her he leads the way he wishes and prefers his feet today. He asks her to send men back to Jehannah to start recruiting everyone they can for Tarmon Gai'don. He has sent recruiting parties to all other nations under his banner already. Near the end Jori Congar approaches him. He apologizes for how he acted when he thought Pairin had slept with Berelain. Pairin tells him it's okay. Jori salutes telling him that the men will follow Pairin wherever he goes. A number of Two Rivers men had already apologized. Pairin is thankful for whatever Faile had done to make this happen. Pairin can start to feel the Last Battle happening.



Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Mat looks at the surrounding area, his memories unclear if he has been here before . However he remembers the Tower vividly. Mat carries the Ashandarei that the Finn had given him, with a new counterweight at the bottom . Mat, Thom, and Noalle investigate the Tower of Ghenjai. Thom uses a bronze knife to cut the symbol used at the start of the game of Snakes and Foxes. The triangle Thom had cut lights up and disappears, showing the inside of the tower. Thom cuts a much larger one so the men can actually fit in. Mat steps through and is blinded temporarily by white light. It finally fades showing a very different world. The other two come through. They are in a chamber not quite square. There are four corridors leading off in separate directions from the room. Mat doesn't recognize this place from his previous visit . Noalle wants to make sure their doorway out works. He steps out and disappears. Noalle comes back after a short time. He tells them he was sealed out and had to redraw the pattern again. They know their means of escape works. They analyze some glowing steam coming out of the floor. It moves away from the flaming torch they carry. Noalle wonders at how large inside of the tower is. Mat believes they have been transported away to somewhere else. They look out a window to see a very different view of the land. Mat recognizes a lot of the landscape from last time. He looks for the three spires he saw on the horizon last time, and realizes from the angle of the land that they must now actually be in one of the spires. Mat wonders if the land of the Aelfinn and Eelfinn are one and the same. Mworane had fallen through the Twisted redstone doorframe  which means that the Eelfinn must have her. The men begin to walk down a hallway. Mat feels like he is being watched now and notices faint motion behind. He spins in that direction but nothing is there. The hallway ends so they move in another direction. Noalle begins to write a map. Mat decides to retrace their steps all the way back to the starting chamber with the gateway out. They get back to where they had started but it is a different chamber now. Faint laughter can be heard. Mat asks if Thom has heard the story of Birgitte Silverbow inside the Tower of Ghenjai. Thom doesn't recall one but he does know of the tale of Elmiara who had tried to save her lover inside the tower. Mat is pleased that the tale did survive , it had just changed forms. 

Suddenly a voice tells them that they have broken the bargain. Mat spins to see an Eelfinn standing there. The Eelfinn tells them he will lead them to where they want to go, as long as they leave their iron, fire and music behind. Mat starts to agree with the Eelfinn when he tells Thom to play some music. Thom plays on his flute and the music dispels the hypnotic trance the Eelfinn was trying to place on them with its voice. The Eelfinn again asks them to leave fire behind and it will take it to the Chamber of Bonds. Thom carries on playing his flute, which puts it to sleep. Noalle tells Mat he was struggling to keep up with the conversation which was in Old Tongue, in which Mat didn't realize he was speaking. Mat pulls out some dice and allocates the number of pips to a hallway. He rolls and they head down the corridor. Mat rolls again and it is the way they had already come. They go back into the room but the sleeping Eelfinn has now gone. They then head down another long hallway. The next roll sends them back the same way they came again. Noalle is protesting when they step into a completely styled room. Mat recalls the room now and knows they are on the right track.





Chapter 54. The Light of the World.






Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


The men stand in a star shaped room, with five hallways leading off in different directions. Matrim Cauthon recalls only having the one corridor to choose from last time. They see figures moving in the shadow, so Thom starts playing his flute again. Noalle finds the remains of the melted Twisted redstone doorframe. One of the Finn steps forward and greets Mat as the son of battles. He offers to take the men where they want to go for a price. The other Eelfinn start to dance around the group taunting them. Thom puts his flute away as the music doesn't seem to be affecting them anymore. Mat throws his dice out. One of the Eelfinn scuttles out on all fours. Mat strikes at it but his Ashandarei passes through it. During the confusion another Eelfinn leaps out and steals Mat's dice. Thom throws an iron knife striking the Eelfinn in the shoulder. Blood from the Eelfinn falls to the ground. The blood begins to steam up, with shapes of twisted faces in it. Mat curses himself for using the wrong end of the ashandarei and spins it around to the end banded with iron. Mat lifts his weapon and hits one across the face, crunching bone in the process. Mat makes to stride after his fallen foe, warning Mat to not venture into the darkness. A group of Eelfinn start stalking forward holding bronze knives. The darkness seems to close onto the group as the Eelfinn approach. Some close on Mat and duck out of the way. Mat realizes its a distraction and spins on some Eelfinn attacking him from behind. Thom starts throwing knives at the Eelfinn but misses. Mat lights a nightflower given to him by Aludra and throws it into the darkness. It ignites lighting the room in a bright light, causing the Eelfinn to scream in pain. Mat then closes his eyes and spins around till he is dizzy. He then leads the men in the direction he is facing which is completely in shadow, and not one of the five hallways. It grows just about completely black before they emerge into another five sided corridor. Mat thinks of Birgitte Silverbow when she was trapped in here in her former life, probably walking past this corridor without even seeing it. Mat keeps walking forward. He notices no dust on the floor this time and wonders if they cleaned it. They finally arrive at a door. Noalle keeps trying to assign logic to what is going on, but his explanations are becoming more flimsy. They push their way through the door and enter the Chamber of Bonds. Mworane Dawmodred floats in the center, white mist covering her and the Ivory bracelet on her left wrist. Mat looks at her with an extreme variation of emotions. Mworane had pulled him out of the Two Rivers but had set him on his path to this point. Mat steps forward to pull her out of the mist, but the mist burns his fingers. Thom steps forward, unconcerned about the hot steam, reaches in and pulls Mworane out.  He wraps Mworane in his gleeman's cloak. Thom confirms that she lives and takes the ivory bracelet off her arm, pocketing it. A voice speaks out telling them that the bracelet is a very powerful Ahn’gree’all. Eight Eelfinn stand on the eight pedestals at the front of the chamber, four male and four female. Mat warns his two companions to keep quiet. Mat tells the group that they must abide by pacts that are made here. One of the Eelfinn tells Mat that the bargain has been made. The others lean forward smelling Mat. They tell Mat that a sacrifice must be made. Mat asks for the way back be restored, with no blockages or changing routes. Just a direct route back. Mat also states that the foxes cannot try and harm them. Mat also demands to take Mworane. One Eelfinn tells Mat his request is expensive, and asks what Mat will pay for them. Another says the price has been set. Within himself he knows the price, told to him by the Aelfinn.  He also knows he will pay it as the fate of the world lies on his decision. Mat agrees to give up half the light of the world. "Done!" one of Eelfinn cries as they all leap at Mat. Thom and Noalle move forward to help Mat, but he tells them to stay back as this is what needs to happen. One of the Eelfinn steps forward and thrusts his sharpened nails straight into Mat's left eye-socket, then pulls out the eye.  Mat drops to his knees and screams in agony. The Eelfinn stand around Mat, feeding of his emotions. Mat howls, feeling like his socket is one fire. Mat slowly pulls himself together and stands. The Eelfinn all look like they are drunk off so much emotion. The one who had grabbed Mat's eye collapses to the ground. Noalle and Thom come to Mat's side. Mat picks his hat off the floor and looks around, realizing that it did seem like he had lost half the light of the world. Thom is bitter as he feels he should have been the one to lose an eye, but Mat tells him it was his choice if he was to save the world. They all turn to Mworane and Mat wonders what important part Mworane has left to play. They decide to make their way out of the hall and back to the entrance they made. The path is dead straight, as per Mat's stipulation of his bargain. Thom carries Mworane tenderly, and Mat wonders what he missed between the two. They pass by Eelfinn standing in the shadows. They make no attempt to attack them. Mat feels pretty happy with his negotiation skills, but is annoyed that he lost his dice. Noalle tells Mat that he is quite rusty with the Old Tongue, but he is sure that Mat said that the foxes were not allowed to hurt the group. Mat agrees. Noalle asks about the Aelfinn. Out of the shadows directly ahead stalk the Aelfinn, carrying long bronze swords. Mat tells his group to run.





Chapter 55. The One Left Behind.






Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Matrim Cauthon takes cover from one of Aludra's cylinders he has just thrown at the Finn. It explodes scattering Aelfinn bodies everywhere. Previously Noalle had tried to soothe the Aelfinn with a drum but that no longer worked. The Aelfinn regather and then continue their chase. They reach a three-sided chamber. Mat doesn't have time to invoke his luck by spinning. They no longer have any cylinders left now. Mat throws one of the last three nightflowers at the Aelfinn. They run through another corridor and Thom asks Mat if he can find his way out like last time.  Mat spins around and ends up pointing at the Aelfinn who are closing on the group. The group run away again through a different corridor. Mat realizes the direction they need to go is the direction the Aelfinn are coming from. Thom is becoming severely winded from carrying Mworane Dawmodred, so Mat takes a turn to carry her. Noalle asks for Mat's pack. He takes out another nightflower and throws it at the approaching Aelfinn. Noalle tells the group to go ahead and that he will try and buy them some time, as the corridor ahead is quite narrow. Mat tries to argue but Noalle tells them that they were all aware of a price this place demanded. Mat nods to Noalle and runs with Mworane in his arms, Thom at his heels. Noalle stays behind to block the corridor for as long as he can. Noalle shouts to Mat:



If you ever meet a Malkieri, you tell him that Jain Farstrider died clean.If you ever meet a Malkieri, you tell him that Jain Farstrider died clean.


Mat hears another nightflower go off and Noalle shout out a battlecry Mat has never heard before. As they run Thom weeps but Mat holds his tears. Mat of the past would have thought Noalle's sacrifice foolish, but after all the memories of what soldiers have done for honor, he would dare not discredit Noalle's actions. Mat thinks to himself:



Matrim Cauthon, you're no hero. That man you left behind, he's the hero. Light illumine you, Noalle.Matrim Cauthon, you're no hero. That man you left behind, he's the hero. Light illumine you, Noalle.


They continue running down random corridors. Out the window Mat spots the three spires they were just in. Mat hands Mworane back to Thom as she begins to stir. They run into a circular chamber. In the middle is the remains of the Twisted redstone doorframe. Mat spins around pointing and ends up facing the destroyed doorway. Mat realizes they are trapped. Mworane opens her eyes and greets both men. They can hear the Aelfinn slowly approaching, and some start making their way into the chamber, smiling, knowing their quarry is caught. Thom begins to play his harp, which actually does start to soothe the Aelfinn, slowing them down. Mat racks his brain thinking about how he escaped the Eelfinn last time. He was unconscious at the time and Rand cut him down.   The Aelfinn creep forward, Noalle's blood on their sword. Mworane closes her eyes again, smiling as she listens to Thom play. Mat asked for the holes in his memory to be filled, which had been filled with memories of previous lives. He wanted to be free of Eyes Sedai and their Power. He received the Silver foxhead medallion. The last boon Mat asked for was to be away from them and back to Roy'deonne. His price was to be hanged though and not what he asked for. But why did he also receive the Ashandarei? He asked for a way out and they gave him that spear. Mat thrusts the spear into the wall and it penetrates, casting bright light out from the other side. Mat continues drawing the symbol of the snakes and foxes. The Aelfinn pause in the doorway, staying back from the bright light. Mat finishes his pattern and a glowing white corridor is revealed behind. Thom picks up Mworane and runs through while Mat engages in combat with the leading Aelfinn. The Aelfinn are furious at Mat but are reluctant to come much closer due to the light. Mat tips his hat at them and tells them he has won. He leaps through the opening.





Chapter 56. Something Wrong.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne al'Veer waits at the Field of Merrilor. Gawyn Trakand informs her that Elayne Trakand's army is making its way to meet with her now. Pairin Eyebarra has not agreed to meet with Igwayne, so she suspects he will take Rands side. Gawyn continues telling her that Pairin has set up his camp away from all the other nations and that it contains the Children of the Light led by Galadedrid Dawmodred. Igwayne has gathered this entire coalition to talk Rand out of breaking the Seals. Gawyn has now started to listen to Igwayne; they have begun working together as partners. The Hall have sent a number of letters to Igwayne giving "advice" on how to deal with Rand. However, they no longer circumvent her. Gawyn now wears all three Bloodknife Ter'angreals around his neck. They walk to meet with Elayne. They walk past the army, which has increased in size over the last few weeks. A new army has also set up containing mostly farmers. Elayne has both Andor and Kai'rienne under her banner. Igwayne had sent a delegation to Murandy to see if King Roedran Almaric do Arreloa a'Naloy would also come. Gawyn suddenly cries out in shock and runs forward to embrace an older woman. Igwayne's spies had sent rumor that Morgays Trakand was alive. The clouds suddenly split open and show clear blue sky beyond. Elayne looks towards Pairin's camp. Igwayne deduces that Rand has arrived.



Point of view: Androl Genhald.


Emarin and Androl Genhald continue to try and make gateways, but the weaves just fall apart. Evin Vinchova encourages Androl to try again due to his Talent with making gateways that many others couldn't do unaided. Logain Ablar is impressed with Androl's Talent. Again the weaves fail. Androl tells the men to walk around the entire Black Tower and try to Travel without Mazrim Taim's men seeing them. Androl meets up with Dafid Norley. Norley tells Androl that he had lunch with Mezar Kurin. He looks and speaks like Mezar, but his eyes and smile are all wrong. Mezar had returned a few days back and said that Logain would also soon return soon, and everything would be resolved with Taim. Mezar had been promoted to full Asha'man. He had once been loyal to Logain but now spends his time with Coteren and the rest of Taim's men. No one is allowed out of the Tower grounds now. Pevara Tazanovni had tried to leave earlier and was denied, much to her displeasure. Androl tells Norley to find all those who are loyal to Logain, move them into the same shared barracks, and post guards at night. Androl walks off to find more allies. He passes Mezar and meets his eyes. There is something wrong with them, some sort of shadow stuffed inside making them not quite seem alive. Androl finds himself outside the building where the Red Ajah are staying. Pevara answers. Androl asks if she wants to leave and reveals that there are others who also want to go. Androl continues and tells here about something wrong happening in the Black Tower and that once upon a time, men and women worked together with the One Power. Pevara lets him enter and tells him that Tarna Feir is absent so they need to conduct their business quickly.





Chapter 57. A Rabbit for Supper.






Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Matrim Cauthon stands outside the Tower of Ghenjai yelling ecstatically at it that he finally beat the Finn. Mworane Dawmodred asks about the one left behind. Mat tells her that Noalle died a hero and that Thom needs to write ballads informing the world about it. Mat is bitter that Thom knew about Noalle's true identity.

Mworane tells the men how the Finn fed off her emotion, although they don't need it to survive. Mat analyses her and thinks of her as humbled and cast down, but stronger for it. Mworane struggles to light some wet tinder, telling them that that is all she can manage now. The Finn feed on powerful emotions, but find tahveeren intoxicating. The Aelfinn and the Eelfinn took turns on feeding off Mworane draining her ability to channel. They were fed by her sorrow at losing her ability and off the One Power. The Finn claim to have killed Lanfear, but a man arrived asking about her.   Mworane asks Thom for the ivory bracelet angreal. She tells the men that it was one of her three demands. Mworane knew she would be trapped in the land of the Finn once the twisted redstone doorframe exploded leaving no way out, no matter how she worded her questions.   Mat inquires what else she asked her and she replies in a very Mworane way, not revealing anything else. Mworane asks if Mat wants Healing on his lost eye. He refuses and she wonders aloud if he is still afraid of the One Power. Mworane then states that she needs to find Rand. Mat tells her that he managed to clean the taint from siedeen. Mworane is astonished, and smiles deeply.



By the Dragon came our pain, and by the Dragon was the wound repairedBy the Dragon came our pain, and by the Dragon was the wound repaired 


Mat tells Mworane that Rand will be meeting with all the monarchs of the world tomorrow and that Elayne is now Queen of Andor. Mworane asks about the Forsaken and Thom replies that the Forsaken don’t bother Mat as he is now married to the Shawn'chin Empress. She is surprised and but attributes it to Mat's ta’veren nature. Mat is not surprised by her reply. Mworane insists on finding Rand but Mat tells her he has other things to do. Mworane reaches out and asks if Thom would be her husband. Thom is reluctant due to his troubles with women who could channel in the past. Mworane offers to discard the angreal if that would change Thom's mind. Thom would never do that to her and would marry her now. Mworane tells him that with the bracelet she will be stronger than before in the One Power. Mat is stunned and wonders how he missed the love connection between the two. Thom says that Mat wasn’t watching very closely and asks if Mworane wants him as a warder too. Mat scorns Thom for accepting being bonded. Thom retorts that Tuon can also learn to channel. Mat watches the two as they look at each other with real love in their eyes. He walks away from the two and makes a small cairn for Noalle. Mat worries about his ability to fight with only one eye. He throws his knife randomly behind him and it impales an unlucky rabbit. He then finds a cooking pot in the River Arinelle in good condition. Although distances are harder to judge, Mat’s luck more than makes up for it. He then busies himself with making dinner.





Chapter 58. And After.






Point of view: Graendal.

Graendal is in her elegant palace just outside Ebou Dar, but she has no plans to stay. She quickly packs what she considers a few necessities. Angry because her plan to kill Pairin Eyebarra has failed, she protests silently that "it should have worked!" As she continues packing, she reminds herself that "he" can find her anyplace in this world, so considers moving to a Mirror World through a Portal Stone, but even as her thoughts complete, "he," Shaidar Haran, appears. Throwing herself to her knees, Graendal attempts to talk her way out of her failure to slay Eyebarra, but the Myrddraal is having none of it. He also blames her for the death of three Chosen and describes her recent efforts as "a lattice of failure, a framework of incompetence." The more she pleads, the less inclined Haran is to listen. His final statement is chilling: "I shall not forget you, and you shall not forget that which comes next." Grinning, he reaches for the howling Forsaken.

Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.

Pairin visits the wolf dream and is dismayed to find that even here it is dying, just like the real world. Because of his affront at what is happening he gathers his will and demands that it return to health and vigor and at first he succeeds. Life reappears, healthy and vigorous, in a circle around him. He forces it out until even the clouds above part and sunlight pours down. He then imagines that Hopper still lives and the wolf appears as if from mist, but his eyes are dead. He suddenly realizes that he cannot control the whole of the wolf dream and something snaps; the wolf dream returns to its former sense of dying accompanied by lightning, thunder and death, as Hopper vanishes from before him. Remembering Faile helps to stabilize him and he also remembers Hopper's last request: "Seek Boundless. He will explain."

So he begins the search for Boundless. He quickly finds him, but after a short amount of wolf banter, Pairin tells the wolf that Hopper said Pairin would need him. Boundless vanishes.

That starts a wild chase where Pairin, turning into Young Bull to better follow, seeks out the young wolf and the wolf sends back thoughts of anger and pain. Those sendings soon become images of cities, forests, fields, and a final image of a cage and Pairin looking down at him. Though by now Pairin is chasing Boundless over a body of water, the last vision so shocks him that he stops in his tracks and turns back into a human. He remembers that scene, that Mworane had been with him, and he suddenly understands who Boundless is.

He calls the wolf by his human name: "Noam." Boundless' mind vanishes, but Pairin now knows where to find him, and goes there; the place in the sending — a small village, barn and a cage. Once he arrives, they converse, Pairin as his human self, Noam as his wolf self. During that conversation, Pairin comes to realize that Noam chose the wolf dream over the waking world because his life was filled to bursting with pain. "The wolf is peace," Boundless/Noam says. Pairin realizes something about balance, for Elyas, for Noam, and for himself and he comes to an epiphany: the wolf dream will never take him. Oh, it has its own dangers when he loses control, but that fear he had been nurturing since the day he let Noam free, the fear that some day the wolf dream would overcome him, just as he thought it had done in Noam's case, was a false fear. He has found that final thing that he needed to understand.

He is grateful for this new revelation. So grateful that he contrives as powerful a sending as he can make it, to Boundless, and then the rest of the wolf brothers who can hear him: himself as Pairin and himself as Young Bull, standing side by side on a hilltop, their scents the same, followed by a most humble, most profound and most sincere, "thank you."

Point of view: Olver.

Just outside Kaymlin, in Mat's tent in the camp of the Band of the Red Hand, Olver plays a game of Snakes and Foxes with the non-attentive Tahlmahness Delovinde, who is more of a baby-sitter than companion. As Olver plays the game, the boy ruminates over a great many subjects, such as his father's death, what it means to be a warrior, and what Mat, Noalle, and Thom are really doing right now. At first, grudgingly and then with more acceptance, he realizes that he could not have been the third person to travel with them to the Tower of Ghenjai; Noalle was a much better choice. But he also thinks of his future when he will make his own decisions. He then spends a moment sizing up Tahlmahness, whom he likes, but decides he is not someone with whom he would like to go drinking and hunting serving girls together, which Olver decides he should be able to start doing in about a year. He then thinks about his plan to find and then kill the Shaido who killed his father. In the meantime the game is played to its conclusion when both Olver and Tahlmahness are shocked to find that Olver actually wins "the game which cannot be won."

Olver says aloud that he wishes Mat were back and Tahlmahness says that the errand Mat runs for the Queen should be done soon. Olver shakes his head because he knows that Mat is on no errand for the Queen, and makes his way to the other side of the tent where Mat has a stack of paperwork waiting for his return. He finds Verin's unopened letter. After rationalizing his actions as Mat's personal messenger, Olver opens the letter, reads enough of it to know it is important and takes it to Tahlmahness, who at first scolds Olver for opening it. But when Olver gets insistent Tahlmahness breaks down and at first hesitantly, but then with more dread, reads it, after which he drops the letter, and rushes from the tent cursing.

Olver picks the letter back up, and reads it a second time, understanding it better. Verin had counted on Mat being curious and opening the letter within days of her leaving. She warns that an army of Trollocs and Myrddraal are using the Ways to enter Kaymlin through a Waygate everyone thinks is secure but is not, and if preparations are not made then Kaymlin would fall before the month is out.

Since Mat never read the letter, this information never got out.

Olver steps outside the tent and sees a harsh red glow over the city; Kaymlin is burning. Tahlmahness screams for his men to get ready for a fight and shouts something about saving the dragons "or we're all dead."

Olver rushes back into Mat's tent to find his hidden knife. Never again would he be a coward. It was time, the boy concludes, to fight.

Point of view: Barriga.

Barriga the merchant, bleeding from a bandaged head wound flees stumbling, into the Blight. Kandor has fallen. Trollocs are raging everywhere to the south. He stumbles and falls and once again sees his caravan overrun by Trollocs. He decides he needs to make for Arafel, presuming that not all of the Borderlands could have fallen.

Climbing up a hillside, he falls. As he grows faint from blood loss, three shadowy shapes appear in front of him. At first mistaking them for Myrddraal he is relieved to see the veils and short spears of the Eye’eel, men of the Dragon Reborn. As they come closer he wonders why these dark-eyed Eye’eel are wearing red veils. One of the Eye’eel loosens his veil to reveal a smiling face, filled with teeth sharpened to points. As the "Eye’eel" takes out a knife and gleefully goes for the kill, Barriga realizes that these weren't Eye’eel. They are something else. Something terrible.

Point of view: Rand al'Thor.

Rand sits quietly within a dream that he controls, his own dream, not Tel'aran'rhiod; he is thinking of the morrow when he is to speak his demands to the monarchs of the world in exchange for his going to Shay'ole Ghoul to face the Dark One and wonders what he would do if they refuse. He is going to break the seals anyway no matter what Igwayne says; that wasn't up for discussion. Still, it is going to be hard for them to say no, especially since he has a reputation for irrationality.

He rests in the peace of his dream. Until he hears a scream in the distance and senses pain. He follows that screaming until he comes to a door, which he wrenches open and enters a room filled with blackness. He follows the wall of the room, noting that it is round like a skull. He finally sees a glimmer of light, a candle standing on a floor of black marble. Huddled there is a woman with silver hair wearing a thin white shift. She pleads with Rand for help, claiming that he knows her. At first Rand does not recognize her, but light figuratively dawns on him and he recognizes her as Mierin. At just about that point he reaches for her but she is dragged away into a pit. He freezes, confused and unable to find calm because of the emotions roiling about inside: hatred, concern, and viperous desire. The woman is Mierin Eronaile, whom Rand once called the Lady Seleen, but most people knew her by a completely different name: Lanfear.

Point of view: LAN Mandragoran.

Tarwin's Gap is home to LAN; yet it is now part of the Blight. Its wide pass is rocky, and dotted here and there with blighted scrub. Yet this is Malkier, his land, and he has come home for the last time.

Trollocs are clustered on the other side of the pass, their numbers staggering; easily ten times the size of LAN's own army, twelve thousand strong and gathered as he marched through the countryside headed for this destination, this confrontation.

Something has changed recently, something wonderful. He felt Nine'eev assuming the Warder bond, and though he regretted the pain she would feel when he died (which would be soon), the bond also gives him strength.

LAN is flanked by two companions who discuss the current plan. They remind LAN that this is his land. And their words are like an elixir; he bellows defiance to the Shadow army waiting on the other side of the Gap, naming himself Lord of the Seven Towers, Defender of the Wall of First Fires, Bearer of the Sword of the Thousand Lakes, and then rejecting the title Aan'allein in favor of his true title: King of Malkier. He sends one last powerful sensation of love to his wife and starts the charge.

He well believes that this day will be Malkier's last day, but it will be a day remembered with honor. His army is made up of Kandori, Arafellin, Shienaran, Saldaean and even Malkieri troops. And leading these twelve thousand men, they charge with shouts and raised swords through the pass toward an army of one hundred and fifty thousand waiting Shadowspawn.



Background of the Dark Prophecy[]


The Dark Lord provides us with three informative paragraphs that come from His book of prophecies. The actual prophet is not cited in this quotation--we only know that the snippet comes from the Prophecies of the Shadow.


The first deals with The Dark Lord conquering the world and laying waste to the nations, and promising that only He and those who serve Him will survive.


The second deals with the demise of a person/people called the "Fallen Blacksmith" and the "Broken Wolf," metaphors that can refer to Pairin Eyebarra or Elyas Machera. The timing of when this "demise" will happen is stated to be after the "the One-Eyed Fool travels the halls of mourning, and the First Among Vermin lifts his hand to bring freedom to Him who will Destroy." The "One-Eyed Fool," and the "First Among Vermin," could refer to Matrim Cauthon and Rand al'Thor, respectively.


"The halls of mourning" probably refers to the Tower of Ghenjai.


"The First Among Vermin [...] bring[ing] freedom to Him who will Destroy" probably means Rand breaking the final seals on the Bore.


The third and final paragraph deals with the arrival of the "Lord of the Evening." It is prophesied that He will take our eyes, skin, and lips so that we will bow before Him, serve Him and praise him. The prophecy then says that the Lord of the Evening shall face the Broken Champion (who is probably Rand) and spill his blood and bring beautiful darkness. The prophecy closes with an encouragement for all followers of the shadow to beg for their destruction.




