Chapter 0. By Grace and Banners Fallen.






Point of view: Bayrd.


The Dragon is reborn, old bonds are broken, old oaths done away with... and I'll be hanged before I let Andor march to the Last Battle without me.Bayrd
The Dragon is reborn, old bonds are broken, old oaths done away with... and I'll be hanged before I let Andor march to the Last Battle without me.— Bayrd


In the camp of Jarid Sarand's remaining forces, a bubble of evil has caused all metal to lose strength and cohesion. In addition, the forest smells like dry dust. Bayrd is working on a flint spearhead, trying to remember what his father taught him. Lord Sarand raves that it is the work of Elayne Trakand and her Eyes Sedai, but his men recognize it as a symptom of the Last Battle and prepare to depart without permission. Sarand accuses them of mutiny and tries to attack Bayrd, so the soldiers tie him to a tree and tell him they will send someone to rescue him once they are safely away. Bayrd believes that while the Dragon Reborn has broken all bonds of men, he has a deeper loyalty to fight for Andor.



Point of view: Tahlmahness Delovinde.


Tahlmahness Delovinde, riding Selfar, brings the Band of the Red Hand up the road toward besieged Kaymlin. The streets are clogged with refugees, but they make way once Tahlmahness explains that his soldiers are trying to reinforce the city. Just as he meets up with Sandip and some of the Band's scouts, the Trollocs reach the gates, trying to cut off the stream of refugees. Tahlmahness orders the Band to move faster.



Point of view: Slayer (as Isam).


I want him dead. I want him gutted like an animal, his bowels spilled onto the ground, his blood a milkpan for ravens, his bones left to bleach, then grey, then crack in the heat of the sun. I want him dead, hunter.Cyndane
I want him dead. I want him gutted like an animal, his bowels spilled onto the ground, his blood a milkpan for ravens, his bones left to bleach, then grey, then crack in the heat of the sun. I want him dead, hunter.— Cyndane


Isam awaits one of the Chosen within a pitiful excuse for an inn. The sprawling ramshackle buildings, located on the outskirts of Thawkahndar, are unaffectionately dubbed "Town" by the people who live there. Uncharacteristic fear stirs within him as he looks through a window and spies red-veiled men in clothes like cadin'sor stalk the streets, scaring anyone else out of their way. They scare Isam as well, and he thinks of jumping to the safety of Tel'aran'rhiod. He knows the Samma N'Sei, the Eye Blinders, will kill for a whim or less, and quickly. However when Moridin walks down the street, even the red-veiled men duck out of view. Moridin reputedly killed at least a dozen of them when he first arrived; unlike them, Moridin can channel here. To Isam's surprise, Moridin passes the inn by without stopping. Taking a drink of "fire" and picking at a tasteless meal, Isam is surprised by the appearance of a slender woman garbed in Moridin's colors. Deducing that she must be one of the Chosen that he has not met, or possibly one in disguise, he kneels and the pain at the side brings thoughts of Eyebarra and a promise of vengeance. He receives his orders from her: kill Rand al'Thor, as directly and efficiently as possible. She orders two of the red-veiled men to accompany him, along with a number of ordinary fighters, Talentless. Isam thinks this is going to be a hateful job.



Point of view: Tahlmahness Delovinde.


I killed a Myrddraal tonight, Andoran. It nicked me with a Thawkahndar blade, and the wound has gone black. That means I have a few hours at best before the blade's poison burns me from the inside out and I die in the most agonizing way a man can. Therefore, friend, I suggest you trust me when I tell you that I really have nothing to loseTalmanes Delovinde
I killed a Myrddraal tonight, Andoran. It nicked me with a Thawkahndar blade, and the wound has gone black. That means I have a few hours at best before the blade's poison burns me from the inside out and I die in the most agonizing way a man can. Therefore, friend, I suggest you trust me when I tell you that I really have nothing to lose— Tahlmahness Delovinde


Tahlmahness and the Band are engaged in heavy fighting with Shadowspawn just inside the gate to Kaymlin. Tahlmahness has killed a Myrddraal, but has taken a minor wound in his side from its sword: he knows he will die without Healing. He goes back out of the gate to confront some mercenaries he saw standing idly by on their way in; he gives them a choice between helping with the hope of payment later, or dying as cowards. They assent, and he sets them to guard the gate while the Band pushes further in, trying to recover the dragons and stymie the attack on the unarmed citizenry.



Point of view: Lie’winn.


My people live with a grave misconception of the world, Bayle. In doing so, they create injusticeLeilwin Shipless
My people live with a grave misconception of the world, Bayle. In doing so, they create injustice— Lie’winn Shipless


Lie’winn and her husband make their way through the camps at the Field of Merrilor, trying to find Nine'eev al'Meera or Elayne Trakand. She wants to assist them against her own people, having seen the lie of the damane and sul'dam for herself. Sleete confronts them and asks their business in the Eyes Sedai camp. They lie, saying (in Lie’winn's case, with a fake Illianer accent) that Nine'eev and Elayne owe them payment for services. Sleete takes them to the camp of the Dragon Reborn instead, and delivers them to Nine'eev, warning that Lie’winn at least is using a bad accent to conceal her nature. Nine'eev accepts their cover story until Sleete leaves, then berates them for losing the black metal a'dam and letting Semirhage collar Rand, nearly causing the end of the world and the war against the Shadow. Lie’winn falls into despair at this, knowing that she traded the a'dam to High Lady Suroth for her life. Having lost what shreds of honor she has left, she pledges herself to be the property of the White Tower. Nine'eev dismisses this 'offer' and takes the pair of them to see the Amyrlin Seat.



Point of view: Tahlmahness Delovinde.


See, it is a good thing I have no sense of humor, otherwise I would think the Pattern was playing a joke on me.Tahlmahness Delovinde
See, it is a good thing I have no sense of humor, otherwise I would think the Pattern was playing a joke on me.— Tahlmahness Delovinde


Melten is applying a poultice of blisterleaf to Tahlmahness' tainted wound, saying it is an old Borderlander trick to slow the poison. He will still die without Healing, but it will help for a while. He also instructs Tahlmahness to drink as much full-strength Shienaran brandy as he can stand while still remaining standing. Tahlmahness accepts the flask doubtfully, but it does seem to counteract the spreading pain. Melten names him "Dreadbane", a title given in the Borderlands for those who have killed Myrddraal. Melten tells Tahlmahness that when the pain gets too much, he will give him a quick death. Tahlmahness knows he isn't joking, but shrugs it off with a quip, instead calling for Dennel to bring maps. He says they are going to go straight for the Palace, then try to get a gateway made to the warehouse where the dragons are being stored. Ladwin and Mar come down from the streets further up, saying another fist of Trollocs is ahead of them.



Point of view: Aviendha.


He has embraced death. he may still carry a sword and wear the clothing of a wetlander, but he is ours now, finally and truly"Amys
He has embraced death. he may still carry a sword and wear the clothing of a wetlander, but he is ours now, finally and truly"— Amys


In a sweat tent in the Eye’eel camp on the Field of Merrilor, Aviendha has just told the other Wise Ones of her horrifying vision of the future of the Eye’eel from the glass columns in Roy'deonne. Everyone is silent for a time, but then everyone speaks at once: Melaine believes it is a side-effect of Sightblinder being so close to the world; Sorilea and Bair want to test the vision to see if all women see the same future. Aviendha worries about the immutability of the vision, if it is in fact true. Kymer, a younger Wise One, points out that the visions of the past from the glass columns are unchanging, but the three rings ter'angreal shows only possible futures. Bair believes they must be changeable, as everything in Roy'deonne is there to help the Eye’eel. Sorilea says that it does not matter; even if the vision is unchangeable, they must proceed as if the Eye’eel can be saved. Aviendha goes to Rand to see what she can learn of his plans for the following day. Bair stops her before she goes, asking for a gateway to Roy'deonne so she can learn the truth of the vision for herself. She advises Aviendha to test the vision by changing the name of one of the children she saw, never telling anyone the original; if that can be changed, then more can be changed. Aviendha asks Bair about Nakomi, but Bair knows no one by that "ancient name." Aviendha weaves the gateway for Bair, then leaves to find Rand.



Point of view: Tahlmahness Delovinde.


The reduced numbers of the Band have led them to an impasse; they have Trollocs ahead and behind now, and at least the ones ahead are linked to a Myrddraal. Suddenly a group of Palace Guards break through from above; Tahlmahness' attack let them go on the offensive finally and escape the Palace. Charlz Guybon is leading them personally; he and Tahlmahness argue over the best course of action. Guybon wants to defend the Palace and the refugees therein; Tahlmahness wants him to lead the refugees out while Tahlmahness finds the dragons. A scout comes up with news that the Trollocs have taken over the city walls, hemming them all in. Guybon and Tahlmahness agree to work together to find the dragons.



Point of view: Androl Genhald.


If his sword is at your enemy's throat, don't waste time remembering when it was at yours.Old Saldean Proverb
If his sword is at your enemy's throat, don't waste time remembering when it was at yours.— Old Saldean Proverb


All men are ignorant, Eyes Sedai. The topics of our ignorance may change, but the nature of the world is that no man may know everything."Androl Genhald
All men are ignorant, Eyes Sedai. The topics of our ignorance may change, but the nature of the world is that no man may know everything."— Androl Genhald


Being polite to a person is not a sign of respect for them, Pevara Sedai. It is merely a sign of a good upbringing and a balanced nature.Emarin Pendaloan
Being polite to a person is not a sign of respect for them, Pevara Sedai. It is merely a sign of a good upbringing and a balanced nature.— Emarin Pendaloan


Androl Genhald is working on the stitches of a saddle while he converses with Pevara; she keeps trying to pump him for information, and suggests that they practice making a circle. Androl doesn't know what she's talking about, but when she explains he suggests she use some of the other Asha'man who are stronger in the One Power. She is surprised, since they all listen to him. Just then, Emarin and Canler return from scouting for gaps in the guard on the walls. They think it might work, in a rainstorm, with luck, but Canler believes Taim's lackeys know they are going to try to escape. Androl says they have to try anyway, and take as many of the non-brainwashed men and their families as possible. Pevara suggests sending a smaller group out to warn the Eyes Sedai who have been cooling their heels outside the Black Tower. Telling them of the Knoks Rebellion, Androl says that the Asha'man have to rescue the Black Tower from Taim's corrupting influence themselves, not by relying on the Eyes Sedai or even the Dragon Reborn. Most of them leave, but Emarin stays and deduces that Androl was part of the Knoks Rebellion, and recalls that it failed within a matter of years. Androl says they have to try anyway, and reveals that he has figured out Emarin is actually Lord Algarin Pendaloan. He asks for an hour to think of what to do next.



Point of view: Tahlmahness Delovinde.


I found the secret to defeating them. You just have to be dead already.Tahlmahness Delovinde
I found the secret to defeating them. You just have to be dead already.— Tahlmahness Delovinde


Jesamyn, the only remaining Kinswoman in the Palace, says that Tahlmahness wound is too far along for her skill with Healing. She is amazed he is still walking around, but he limps off to collect the Band and Guybon. They make their way to the warehouse where the dragons were stored, but it has been burned to the ground. On the point of despair, Tahlmahness hears a familiar booming noise from a few streets over, and runs in that direction, killing several Trollocs and surprising the Myrddraal leading them by killing it rather than flinching when it nicks him with its sword. The Trollocs linked to it die as he beheads it, revealing Aludra, the dragons, and several hundred refugees. She has been using smaller fireworks like grenades to keep the Trollocs at bay. Tahlmahness is overjoyed at seeing the weapons, but his wound has started to make him delirious. When scouts report yet more Trollocs behind, he asks the men to set the table for more guests, then almost falls over. They prepare to try to escape the city.



Point of view: Moghedien.


From this moment on, this man shall be known only as M'Hael. One of the ChosenMoridin
From this moment on, this man shall be known only as M'Hael. One of the Chosen— Moridin
The last days are upon us. In these hours, you will earn your final rewards. If you have grudges, put them behind you. If you have plots, bring them to completion, for this... this is the end.Moridin
The last days are upon us. In these hours, you will earn your final rewards. If you have grudges, put them behind you. If you have plots, bring them to completion, for this... this is the end.— Moridin


Moghedien steps through a gateway into a dreamshard of Moridin's devising, a stone platform floating on a lake of water that burns. She wonders again how sane he really is. Moridin has given her the cour'souvra pendant to wear, but has not released her soul from it. She is worried about the fragility of it, and often clutches at her throat. Demandred arrives, seemingly irritated at Moridin's incessant orders to meet, and Moridin says there are people the remaining Chosen need to meet. An unfamiliar and astonishingly ugly woman enters by gateway, and Moridin introduces her as Hessalam. After a moment Moghedien realizes this is a corrupted incarnation of Graendal, her beauty transformed into repulsiveness. Moridin begins the meeting with Hessalam's arrival, not waiting for Cyndane, (and leaving little doubt to the identity of the one who gave Isam his orders earlier). Moridin opens a literal doorway on the side of the platform and reveals Mazrim Taim, who he reveals has been elevated to the ranks of the Chosen. Taim's new name is M'Hael. Moridin orders Moghedien to assist Demandred with controlling an army that needs monitoring. He tells all of them to finish up any plots they have, discard any grudges; "for this... this is the end", he says.





Point of view: Tahlmahness Delovinde.


Tahlmahness has fallen to the ground from the pain of his wound, and stares at the reflected lights of the burning city as his allies argue over how to proceed. The Trollocs have them surrounded and have nearly cut off access to the city gate that Lientenant Sandip is guarding. They prepare to use the dragons in one last stand, when Tahlmahness seizes on a flash of inspiration and tells Dennell to aim the dragons at the city wall. Guybon protests, citing thousands of years of history, but Tahlmahness tells him Kaymlin is lost and gives the order. The dragons explode the wall, throwing Trollocs wide and clearing a way out of the city.





Chapter 1. Eastward the Wind Blew.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.




A wind blows down out of the Mountains of Mist, past what is left of Tawwren Ferry and over the burning city of Kaymlin, before blowing through the Field of Merrilor. Rand and Pairin are conversing over the story of Pairin falling down the stairs of the Winespring Inn prior to the Battle of Emmond's Field. Rand is laughing at the absurdity of the tale, much different from the first time Pairin told him about the battle, when all Rand wanted to know was the outcome. He has become focused on people as people again. Disturbed by his dreams of the night, and wanting to let Min sleep, Rand asks Pairin to walk with him as he checks on the camp. Blacksmiths and Asha'man are working on Power-wrought blades as quickly as they can. Rand talks at last about the feeling of having Lews Therin Telamon in his head, and the integration between the two parts of his soul. They arrive at the tent of Sebban Balwer and his clerks, and Balwer reports that King Roedran will come to the meeting tomorrow, completing the list of major rulers. Just then, an earthquake spasms the area, and Rand feels it as if it were a part of him. He tells Balwer to have his clerks post notices to warn people that the unsettled earth, storms, and other effects of the Dark One's touch will continue. Rand is worried, not just for the Last Battle but also for his unborn children by Elayne, having just recently been made aware of her pregnancy. He also reflects on Lews Therin also being a father, but this was now different. They go to speak with Elayne, having been warned by Balwer that his spies have seen her be awakened in the middle of the night.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.




Igwayne works on a letter to Rand, using it to compose her thoughts whether or not she will actually send it to him. Gawyn comes into the tent and reports that he has sent word to wake Elayne. He does not like the 'feel' of the night; something seems wrong. Igwayne makes a gateway from her tent to Elayne's, avoiding public scrutiny of their visit. Elayne kisses the Ahmerlin’s ring and they talk of Rand and his expected plan to break the seals. Elayne seems distracted; when Igwayne asks, she says that the Kin in Kaymlin are overdue to report. Elayne thinks that Rand must know something they do not, to want to take such drastic steps. Igwayne points out that they have searched the library ter'angreal and the White Tower Library extensively and found nothing to support Rand's theory. Elayne stops flipping through Igwayne's notes, reading a marginalia in Doniella Alievin’s copy of the Termendal translation of Prophecies: "Wait upon the Light." Igwayne believes that Doniella, a Dreamer, had a vision that supports waiting to break the seals until later. before they can continue the discussion, a messenger arrives with word that Kaymlin is under attack. Charlz Guybon, his Palace Guards, and the remaining Band of the Red Hand are retreating through a gateway, with the dragons and many refugees. Tahlmahness is in very bad shape, and Igwayne hears Nine'eev al'Meera nearby, summoning her to Heal the wounded man. Nine'eev uses her enhanced Healing technique and Tahlmahness appears pale but alive, at least for the moment. While Nine'eev works, Igwayne notices Lie’winn and Bayle Domon standing nearby. She recognizes Lie’winn's Shawn'chin accent and has a guard take them away so she can deal with them later. Igwayne returns to Nine'eev and offers to link with her to lend strength for further Healing.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.




Pairin Eyebarra and Rand al'Thor continue to walk the camp, headed toward Pairin's camp where Faile is. Rand continues to open up about his madness, pointing out the irony that the taint on siedeen is what allowed him access to Lews Therin's memories, and may therefore lead to the defeat of the Dark One. They also discuss the seals, and Rand's analogy of reforging them makes sense to Pairin's experience as a blacksmith. Pairin encourages Rand to explain it that way to Igwayne, confident that she will understand if the two can talk about it. They talk briefly with two guards from the Two Rivers, Reed Soalen and Kert Wagoner. A messenger runs up for Pairin, and they speak briefly to one side. Pairin confides in Rand that Kaymlin has fallen. Rand thinks he sees Demandred's hand in the attack, saying the Shadow will try everything it can to disrupt them now that the end is so close. Rand muses that the Trollocs must have gotten into the city by the Waygate; he had thought it was guarded and warded. Pairin suggests sending reinforcements, but Rand is adamant that the attack is a distraction and the city has fallen. He is not without sympathy, though; he plans to send Asha'man to help with the evacuation, and to keep the Trollocs penned in, not ravaging the countryside. The two part amicably and exchange blessings, with Rand telling Pairin to get a good night's sleep before things get truly bad tomorrow.





Chapter 2. The Choice of an Ajah.






Point of view: Pevara.

Pevara and Androl speak casually about their mutual distrust and the 'plan' to escape the Black Tower, while Androl continues to work on his saddle. Pevara makes an informed comment about his workmanship, revealing that her uncle was a leatherworker. They are worried that the ongoing storm is a bubble of evil, like one earlier in the week that had caused forty non-channelers to burst into flame. They see ghost in anachronistic clothing wandering through the rain, without getting wet. Androl expresses frustration that Pevara will not believe that siedeen is clean, and he asks her about linking. She attempts to show him how to link, and he seizes control of the circle clumsily. He is overwhelmed at the amount of the One Power available to him with Pevara's added strength, and begins lifting objects around the cabin at random. He muses about trying to form a gateway before the experience startles him into releasing the circle. Furious and scared, Pevara bonds Androl to try to gain control over his behavior in the future. Instead he responds by bonding her in return. The double bond appears to create a telepathic link, allowing Pevara access to some of Androl's memories and thoughts. Both are stunned by what they have done, but they try to regain some equanimity just as Evin Vinchova bursts in and says that Welyn Kajima has been turned, along with his Eyes Sedai Jenare. They all fear that Logain has been captured, or will be tomorrow when Welyn says he will return; the battle for the Black Tower may have finally begun in earnest.

Point of view: Aviendha.

Aviendha stealthily approaches Elayne's tent, at one point hiding herself in the bushes to avoid the guard's notice. She sneaks into the back of Elayne's tent, then waits for Elayne to finish her council. Everyone is startled when they realize she is there, but Elayne laughs it off. Both women talk about the Shadowspawn invasion to Kaymlin. Elayne knows that the Waygate in Kaymlin was used in spite of being closed from outside and guarded - Darkfriends in the Queen's Guard opened it and murdered other guardsmen.  She doesn't plan to reconquer Kaymlin, she wants to choose a more suitable battlefield instead. Elayne receives a letter from Rand arguing for her intervention in Kaymlin and relieves her of the commitment to attend tomorrow's meeting, but she believes he is trying to put her back up and make her stay for the meeting tomorrow on the Field of Merrilor. She admires him for playing the Game of Houses with her, but also finds him frustrating. Aviendha informs Elayne that she has become a Wise One at last, having been to Roy'deonne. She asks Elayne's permission, obliquely, to consummate her relationship with Rand. Elayne grants it, saying this may be the last chance she has before the Last Battle.





Chapter 3. A Dangerous Place.






Point of view: Androl Genhald.


Welyn Kajima sits in the inn's common room and tells the gathering that Logain Ablar and Mazrim Taim have patched their differences, citing a concern over the Last Battle. Androl Genhald stands by the door with Pevara Tazanovni and watches the unbelievable scene; he notes that Welyn's face and voice were not as he remembered. Jonneth Dowtry demands to know where Logain is, and why he can't speak for himself. Androl respects the honesty from the Two Rivers Asha'man but silently pleads for caution. He is dismayed that there is an Eyes Sedai in his head and assumes the void in order to shield his thoughts. Pevara admits that it is now harder to read his thoughts. Lind Taglien cuts off Jonneth's questioning and the Asha'man leaves the inn.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand thinks on how he has changed and what more he can do, such as learning Healing from Damer Flinn. Aviendha arrives and tells him he is to bed her. They exchange flirtatious banter, and as the Maidens cheer on Aviendha and insult Rand, they slip into his tent.



Point of view: Pevara Tazanovni.


Pevara tells Androl she suspects Taim has a Ter'angreal that prevents gateways. As they talk, she realizes she can sense a little of what he is thinking, but that he is much better at sensing what she is thinking. Dobser arrives, lured by Evin and is shielded by Pevara. Leems and Welyn come in, and try to shield Pevara, who is able to slice Leems' weave. In his shock from the recoil, she also shields him. Welyn runs, but she trips him and Androl knocks him out with a cudgel.





Chapter 4. Advantages to a Bond.






Point of view: Androl Genhald.


Pevara tells Androl about her family being murdered by Darkfriends. Androl tells her about his father, who could channel, committing suicide before the taint could drive him mad.

Pevara and Androl are developing telepathic communication through their double bond. 

Emarin arrives and interrogates Dobser by pretending to be a High Lord of Tear wanting to set up a rival tower with male and female channelers working together. Dobser takes the bait and tells Emarin where Logain is being held: in hidden rooms in the foundation of the Black Tower building. Dobser says that it will probably take one or two days to Turn him. Pevara binds Dobser in Air and blocks his ears after he tells them where the hidden rooms are. Androl says they'll dose Dobser, Welyn, and Leems with something that will make them sleep "until Bel Tine" and then rescue Logain that night after Taim inspects him. 



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand finds himself asleep and in a Dreamshard despite the wards he set. He meets Moridin and they talk about Lanfear and the past when Ishamael was haunting Rand's dreams. Rand realizes Moridin hates himself and serves the Dark One because this is the only way for everything to end for him. Rand gains control over Moridin's own Dreamshard and tells the other man to tell his Master that Rand is coming for him. Moridin flees in shock and Rand returns to natural sleep, thinking this is his last chance before he faces the rulers of the Westlands.



Point of view: Pevara Tazanovni.


Pevara, Androl, Emarin, Jonneth, and Nalaam prepare to rescue Logain. Canler is left behind, because he has a family, while the Two Rivers boys and men and told to attempt to escape if they fail to rescue Logain. They watch as Emarin, Jonneth, and Nalaam kill three men guarding the Black Tower building's foundations. Pevara is surprised they would lead with a lethal attack because that is something Eyes Sedai would not do. Pevara, Androl, Emarin, Jonneth, and and Nalaam go into the Black Tower foundations. They find Coteren guarding a door to an earthen room. Jonneth kills him with an arrow from his Two Rivers bow. They find Logain and take him out of his cell, but he is either drugged or too weak to channel. Androl confirms Logain has not been Turned. Taim's men burst into the room and the two sides fight with the Power. Androl tries to make a gateway. The dirt roof of the room collapses.





Chapter 5. To Require a Boon.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand wakes up and gives orders the rulers to be gathered in one hour at the center of the Field of Merrilor. He talks with Aviendha about the Age of Legends and their ways, demonstrating how they used channeling for taking a shower. Aviendha tells Rand she will require a boon that may force Rand to change his plans in a drastic way.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne dreams of a frozen pillar of glass. She also dreams about a sphere (the world) cracking and how she was tying it with cords, trying to hold it together which takes a monumental effort. Igwayne wakes up in the White Tower and talks with Gawyn who she finds reading a report about Kaymlin. Together they go through a gateway to Igwayne's tent on the Field of Merrilor. They go out and head to the meeting place together with Silviana and a number of Sitters. Igwayne speaks with Elayne, Darlin, Gregorin, and Roedran. Rand finally arrives, the grass greening under his feet, and constructs a massive pavilion with the One Power. As he enters the pavilion, he proclaims that every ruler can bring five people with them. Igwayne chooses Silviana, Syreen, Romanda, Lelaine and Gawyn. All of them enter the pavilion erected in the center of the field. Rand welcomes them and tells them they need a plan to fight the Shadow and they need to plan for what happens after. He states that he won't die so the humanity could continue fighting each other. The Dragon requires three things as payment for his life: 



The first requirement is for the borders to be set as they are at that moment. This means prohibiting countries to attack each other, opening of state funded schools in each capital, and obligations for the other countries to defend one under attack.
The second requirement is the breaking of the seals to the Dark One's Prison, which Igwayne strongly opposes. Rand tells her he intends to try killing the Dark One, making sure no other Age has to suffer what they have.


Rand's third requirement is to be commander of the world's armies during Tarmon Gai'don. He cites the lack of unity during the War of the Power as the reason for their defeat.


As tensions in the pavilion rise, Mworane enters.





Chapter 6. A Knack.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin watches everyone's reactions to Mworane's presence. She speaks briefly with Rand and Igwayne and is hugged by Nine'eev, surprising Pairin. Mworane quotes the prophecy and tells everyone they need to do what Rand wants because only he could fight this battle.  

Several rulers note that the peace would not exist without the Shawn'chin signing the document and without a mechanism for punishing those who breach the peace. Rand promises he will make peace with the Shawn'chin and if not the document would be void. Aviendha objects that the Eye’eel are not in the treaty and Rand has toh towards them. Aviendha demands her boon - to put the Eye’eel in the Dragon's Peace. The other Eye’eel confirm she speaks for them. Rand finally agrees to put them in the treaty too.  Pairin asks to speak with him privately. After Rand weaves the ward, Pairin uses a metaphor of a tool that will rust if not used and proposes that Eye’eel should be used to enforce the treaty. Rand agrees and offers that option to the Eye’eel, who accept after a brief discussion. 

Mworane asks Rand why would he need to command the armies when he is going to Shay'ole Ghoul. Rand agrees that someone else could lead the armies as long as the others know that there is one Commander. Mworane addresses Igwayne and insists that the Amyrlin, the Watcher of the Seals, should be the one who will break the Seals and that the prophecy requires it. Igwayne reluctantly agrees. Rand gives the Seals to Igwayne. The rulers finally sign the document. Elayne is the last. To persuade her, Rand suggests appointing her to lead the armies during the Last Battle.  

Then they discuss the Shawn'chin, who still hold many Eye’eel Wise Ones as damane. The Eye’eel chiefs want to start a blood feud, but Aviendha says they can't win and the other Wise Ones agree (based on the vision in Roy'deonne). Finally, everyone signs the treaty and Rand declares he has some tasks before heading to Shay'ole Ghoul. The sky seems to darken which worries Pairin. 

Before leaving the tent, Rand says there is an old friend in need of their help.



Point of view: Al'LAN Mandragoran.


LAN and his companions are desperately fighting the Shadowspawn. Though they still hold Tarwin’s Gap, the humans suffer many casualties and grow exhausted. Another raid begins and LAN orders his men to slowly begin pulling out of the pass. LAN is aware they will eventually be overrun. LAN's army charges the Trollocs ready to die. They do not expect to survive the attack. LAN shouts "Al Chailidholara Malkier!" and hears thousands of hoofbeats behind him. He turns to see men riding through a gateway under the flag of Arafel. More gateways open and the other Borderlanders appear together with Asha'man. LAN laughs, Malkier won't die today.





Chapter 7. Into the Thick of It.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne steps out of the pavilion to find herself in a grove of healthy tall trees. The sun is still shining, they were just trees casting shadows on the tent. Pairin notes such trees grow in steddings. A Shienaran soldier says the trees grew up in five minutes. Rand is already gone so Elayne requests maps and starts planning the war against the Shadow with the help of the four great captains. Gareth Bryne points out that large forces of Shadowspawn have invaded three locations - Kaymlin, Kandor and Tarwin's Gap. They decide that those three as well as Shay'ole Ghoul, where the Eye’eel will watch Rand's back, would be the main battlefronts. They will concentrate on Kaymlin first, where the largest army would be sent in the attempt to wipe out Shadowspawn thus reducing the number of battlefronts. They don't favor besieging the city so they realize they need to lure the Trollocs out, towards Braem Wood. Pairin informs about unspecified problems in the Black Tower. 

It's decided LAN would get reinforcements eventually but his forces are to hold against the Shadowspawn as long as they can.

The Eyes Sedai and the might of the White Tower are going to be sent to the border of Kandor with the same task.

The four great captains are to lead the battles on the four fronts: Agelmar is chosen to go to the Malkieri and the rest of the Borderlanders, Bryne to lead the battle in Kandor,Bashere to retake Kaymlin and Ee'two'rahl'day to command the army in Shay'ole Ghoul. Elayne decides to stay at the Field of Merrilor for the time being and work from there. 

Hours later the Queen of Andor is heading to her camp when she hears a song nearby. Upon investigation, she sees that the Ogier have come. Haman, son of Dal, son of Morel (along with Loial, son of Arent, son of Halan) announce that the Ogier have come, after some deliberation, to lend their axes to the humans' fight. Elayne wants Pairin to be the one coordinating the food supplies and overseeing the food situation in every nation but he refuses, stating that Rand would need him during the days to come, accordingly to a Min's viewing. Faile volunteers to take this responsibility and Elayne finally agrees, reluctantly. She takes Pairin aside and tells him they need to take care of Mat getting the Horn of Valere in time. Pairin suggests giving that task to Faile as well, as the Shadow would not suspect her of having it. The Queen agrees - again, reluctantly.



Point of view: Al'LAN Mandragoran.


LAN is informed of the battle plans coming from Merrilor and hears that they will fight under the flag of Malkier. LAN passes some grieving soldiers and tells them they should not mourn but laugh, cheer the fallen and drink to their forefathers who taught them well.





Chapter 8. That Smoldering City.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne arrives at a hill about a thousand paces to the northwest of Kaymlin. She realizes, whilst observing at the damage, that warfare has changed forever with the introduction of the Dragons. Pairin and the Whitecloaks arrive too. The battle plan is to lure the Trollocs out of the city and into the forest where they can fight them more successfully. Bashere argues with Elayne about whether she should tell the men she carries the children of the Dragon Reborn. Using gateways the army of Light fills some of the basements in the city with oil and set them on fire. Watching the burning city, Elayne orders Birgitte to make it known among the Guards the children she carries are Rand al'Thor's.



Point of view: Androl Genhald.


Androl, Jonneth, and Emarin are laying down, tied to hooks in the ground and shielded. Pevara and Evin are also tied up and shielded. Evin tells Androl that Taim's men broke him and learned of Androl's plan when they came looking for Emarin. Pevara tells Androl telepathically that they were dug out of the dirt room because Taim hasn't met his quota of Turned Dreadlords yet. Evin is Turned and tells Androl that Nalaam died in the cave-in. Emarin is taken to be Turned next by 13 Myrddraal and Androl thinks that Nalaam was lucky to have died in the cave-in.





Chapter 9. To Die Well.






Point of view: al'LAN Mandragoran.


LAN's armies continue holding the Trollocs at the Gap but they know that the Shadowspawn will overrun them eventually. LAN witnesses Bulen's death, but refuses to mourn. Instead, he talks with his men about the heroic deeds of their fallen comrades, and they begin to laugh and praised the honored dead. With Narishma's help LAN leaves Bulen's body on the top of a mountain where he will be preserved until he can be buried properly. Suddenly the the ground starts shaking and rumbling, and tiny rents appear in the rock, cracks that are way too dark to be normal. The nothingness behind the cracks soon disappears, but LAN is worried about what he saw. He heads to the Saldean camp. There he talks with Lord Agelmar about how tired the men are. LAN refuses to retreat and leave Malkier to the Shadow a second time. Agelmar calls him selfish and tells him it's irresponsible to throw his life away with the Last Battle upon them and that their task is to hurt the Shadow even if it means falling back. An emergency signal draws LAN's attention and he storms out to help the defensive lines.

He realizes that eventually he will do what has to be done and abandon Malkier again.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne's army is moving to Kandor. She talks with Gawyn, who is now her husband as they were married the previous night. He is obviously impatient to fight the Shadow. Silviana discusses Elayne's proposal for a stationary hospital with Igwayne. The Amyrlin agrees eventually, but she is worried that the White Tower is not a suitable location, as it has been compromised twice by the Shawn'chin. Instead, she suggests Mayene as the place where the wounded will be transferred and healed by the Yellow Sisters, the Novices and the Accepted. 

Igwayne goes to meet Lie’winn. The Amyrlin offers her a chance to repay her debt for not getting rid of the bracelets. The Shawn'chin woman swears to serve and protect Igwayne under the Light and by her hope of salvation and rebirth. Thinking that the only person that would break that kind of oath would be a Darkfriend, Igwayne then questions her about Shawn'chin military, arms, strength and the plans of the Empress.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand arrives at Elayne's tent and waits for her to arrive. They talk about the war and their children and have dinner together. Rand tells her what happened atop Dragonmount and shares his reluctance to send people to fight and die in his name. Elayne tells him he should not deny the people their right to fight and defend what they love. Rand explains to her how the Pattern works by trying to balance good and evil, and says that the miraculous signs around him since his time on Dragonmount are the result of the Pattern balancing out the evil effect of the Dark One's touch on the world. Rand gives Elayne a small statue of a woman - a Seed that is used for creating angreal. In return, Elayne gives him a dagger ter'angreal that prevents the Shadow from seeing the holder.





Chapter 10. The Use of Dragons.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin rides with a group of soldiers whose task is to attract the attention of the Trollocs outside Kaymlin and make them follow the humans to the woods. The soldiers attack the Shadowspawn with arrows but they do not break from their position outside the city walls. Pairin declares they will continue attacking until the Trollocs follow.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne is updated on Pairin's progress during the day. The Queen decides she will hop through a gateway and see for herself how the fight is going. Birgitte, holding the copy of the foxhead medallion Elayne made, threatens to carry her back on her shoulder if she dares going to Pairin. The Queen gives up her plan.

She meets Uno who is serving as Igwayne's messenger. Elayne manages to catch her Warder watching the old soldier. Amused at Birgitte's lustful thoughts, she enters her command tent. They update her on the situation on the other fronts. She is unpleasantly surprised by the situation in Tarwin's Gap. She realizes they need to win swiftly in Andor so they could help the other armies. She insists on hitting the Trollocs harder and using the dragons if they retreat back into the city.



Point of view: Androl Genhald.


Androl wakes, tied up and unable to channel due to the forkroot he's been dosed with. The Dreadlords have been working on Emarin, and though he hasn't Turned, he seems closer to breaking. Taim's thirteen Dreadlords are exhausted. Pevara has also been dosed with forkroot and is unconscious. Taim was angry when he found out his men gave it to her because he wanted to Turn Pevara next, and a person who can't channel, even temporarily, can't be Turned. 

Toevienne is brought in and gagged. Though Taim usually watches the turning, now he fondles a seal to the Dark One's prison. Then he tells Mishraile that it's time and orders him to follow. Taim tells the thirteen Asha'man that he wants Toevienne Turned by the time he returns. 



Point of view: Al'LAN Mandragoran.


LAN rides toward the Gap when he hears explosions - enemy channelers. Narishma estimates their number at around two dozen. LAN admits they need to retreat and sends Narishma to Elayne in order to bring channelers who need to cover their retreat. The Gap is lost, as is Malkier, for the second time.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne is waiting inside Braem Wood. She remembers a tale about Birgitte leading a band of thieves in the same forest. Birgitte is able to confirm the tale, though her memories are continuing to fade. 

A messenger from Kaymlin arrives informing the Queen that Pairin has successfully engaged the Trollocs. The soldiers in the wood begin to prepare themselves.

Pairin's soldiers finally reach Braem Wood, the Trollocs close behind them. The archers loose their arrows taking down many of the Shadowspawn's archers. Elayne's forces lure the Trollocs further into the woods. They succeed and use the cover the trees provide to take down even more Trollocs using explosives, more arrows and dragons. The result is impressive. Elayne and Birgitte argue over the dragons. Elayne states that nobody but Trollocs would go against such weapons. Birgitte doesn't think that's a good thing. Warfare has changed forever.





Chapter 11. Just Another Sell-sword.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne and Adelorna talk. Adelorna tells her that those among the Green Ajah that have not been supportive of her have been told to mend their ways. Adelorna tells her that her fight during the Shawn'chin attack had shown her to have the spirit of a warrior and that the Greens should embrace it as an example. Igwayne realizes that Adelorna is revealing that she is the Head of the Green Ajah and that she feels that Igwayne should have been raised from the Green. 

She enters Gareth's command tent and almost falls into a Gateway open on the floor, looking down from above the Trollocs. Yukiri tells Igwayne that she volunteered for the duty after Gareth asked if it was possible. She tells Igwayne that she has been considering if it is possible to make a gateway that only allows light through, hiding it from the other side. 

She looks at Gareth's battle plans and complains that he has not planned to use the Eyes Sedai. He responds that he had intended them as a reserve force, but Igwayne insists that the Tower has not trained for three thousand years to be a reserve force. He tells her that he has made plans that would make more use of them, but that he had not wanted to push the issue. They begin work on new battle plans, with the Eyes Sedai as the main force.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat travels to Ebou Dar and notices numerous Tinkers gathered along the city's outskirts and laments that a tinker city is just wrong. He travels in disguise, concealing his ashandarei to resemble a walking pole, hiding his hat within saddlebags, and regretfully ripping the lace off his coat. He pretends to be a wounded sell-sword with a crude bandage wrapped around his missing eye. He fears that people would remember Tylin's murder, and his connection to it. He worries that Beslan will hate him now and wonders how Tuon feels about him after their time apart.

He is upset when the gate guard waves him on without hearing the story he invented for himself. While searching for an inn to get a feel for Ebou Dar (and complaining that Setalle Anan no longer has an inn), he notices Petra Anhill dressed as a Shawn'chin soldier and guarding the gate. He almost goes over to greet the former strongman, but the uniform makes him reconsider. It was pure luck that Petra was not the one to wave him into the city. That would have ruined his plans.

He contemplates entering The Rahad, but the place looks different now, with guards on duty. While searching for a place to stable Pips, he notices small changes to the city since the Shawn'chin arrived. Ebou Dar feels different somehow.

He enters an inn called The Winter Blossom and immediately leaves after spotting Deathwatch Guards in uniform, fearing a run-in with Furyk Karede. After many futile attempts to find the right place, a dice game attracts him to The Yearly Brawl. Jame, a Shawn'chin guard and Blademaster greets Mat with a distrustful glare upon his entry and receives a playful rebuke from the proprietor, Kathana.

Kathana queries about his missing eye and laughs at the lie he uses. Jame interrogates Mat about events to the north, trying to get him to rethink his course of action because he suspects that Mat is an assassin after the Empress. Mat lifts the bandage, showing how his missing eye would make him a poor assassin and asks if assassins are after Tuon. Jame affirms this question with a tale about how he killed one who actually admitted his mission. Mat counts him as a friend and puts his hat on. After further questions, Mat learns that General Lunal Galgan is hiring the assassins. Mat leaves the inn, but not before Kathana recognizes that he is one all the guards are looking for.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is in LAN's command tent in Shynarr with Mworane. The Borderlander soldiers burn the lands around to help slow the Trolloc advance. The Eyes Sedai requires to know why Rand is not heading for Shay'ole Ghoul but risking himself being at the Gap. Rand refuses to go face the Dark One before the time is right. 

LAN arrives and tells Rand to listen to Mworane and leave. Rand says he would not leave and gives LAN two crowns, for him and Nine'eev, before opening a gateway to the battlefield. 

A storm begins when the Dragon faces the Dark One's forces. Rand channels and starts destroying Shadowspawn. Taim and other Dreadlords try to shield Rand without success. Then a circle tries shielding him, but he manages to rebuff it. 

The Dragon realizes it's not the time to fight Taim and leaves through another gateway back to LAN's tent.





Chapter 12. A Shard of a Moment.






Point of view: Birgitte Silverbow.


Birgitte wonders if being torn out of Tel'aran'rhiod by Moghedien has severed her from the Horn forever. She fears that she has lost Gaidal. She is continuing to lose her past memories. 

Birgitte and some Eye’eel hide in a cave and ambush a Fist of fifty Trollocs which they quickly overcome. They move through the forest, death and decay filling the air. They come across another group of Trollocs, but must retreat as the group is too big for them to fight. Elayne has ordered the human dead recovered, hopefully inspiring fear in the Trollocs when they see only their dead. Elayne's plan is to have small groups of fighters pick off the Trollocs.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is in a dreamshard of his own creation. He walks through a peaceful wood and through a valley. He thinks back to his previous life as Lews Therin Telamon and wonders how meditation in dreamshards could have affected his life then. He ignores a dark cave placed before him once, but enters upon seeing it for the second time.

Inside he finds Mierin struggling in a pool of water. She begs him to help her, to release her. Rand sees through the deception and she quickly releases the illusion. 

They talk of her captivity and her lust for power, which Rand sees as her motive for everything. He asks her to open herself completely to him, to let him see her true intentions but she refuses. Mierin attempts to play on the love that she believed Lews Therin had for her, but Rand refutes this saying that he never loved her. He then lets go of any feeling he had for her. Rand opens himself to her, showing her his intentions and desires. She sees them as a swirl of color and learns of his plan to kill the Dark One. Rand doesn't consider this reveal dangerous as the Dark One can read his thoughts because he touched the True Power once. 

After this Rand leaves the cave.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Evening has fallen on Braem Wood. Pairin checks on his people, making sure their camp is secure and that they are fed before going to the Eye’eel encampment. Elayne's forces are doing well against the Shadowspawn but they are outnumbered. 

Pairin finds Edarra, a Wise One who stayed with Pairin despite most of her kind going north to Shay'ole Ghoul with Rand. Pairin asks her about Dreamwalking in the flesh, and she replies that it is an evil thing and that he would risk losing a part of himself. She also warns him that if he dies in the flesh there he could die forever. She refuses to speak to him any more on the matter and leaves.





Chapter 13. What Must Be Done.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne and the Eyes Sedai are positioned at the top of some hills in south-eastern Kandor. Igwayne leads one hundred sisters, mainly from the Green Ajah, and a massive army - yet once she sees the Trolloc army she is no longer so confident. She uses Vora's Sa'angreal to destroy the oncoming Trollocs, mainly using weaves of Earth in a raw destructive manner. The Eyes Sedai fighting alongside her do the same, wave after wave of Trollocs fall to weaves of the Power. Igwayne thinks that the Green Ajah is living up to its name as they rain destruction down on the Shadowspawn. After an undisclosed amount of time the Shadowspawn retreat and Gawyn comments on how impressive the Eyes Sedai were. Igwayne replies that the Trollocs will return, and the use of the Power will not be such a surprise to them next time.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne is meeting with Bashere at her command in Braem Wood. They discuss how the other battles are going. The Borderlanders led by LAN have been pushed out of Tarwin's Gap. Elayne orders the cities of Shynarr, Fal Dara, Fal Moran and Mos Shirare to be burnt and the people evacuated to Tar Vawlyn.  Tahlmahness enters with news of the battle in Braem Wood - the Dragons are useless as the Trollocs are keeping off the road. Bashere suggests they retreat, sending a group of bridge builders to the River Erinin so that they can cross into Kai'rienne. Bashere's advice is to retreat all the way to the city of Kai'rienne and fight the Shadowspawn with the city at their backs. Elayne agrees but worries that she cannot afford to keep retreating; she must defeat the Shadow here so that her troops can be of use elsewhere.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin is in his camp in Braem Wood. He hears the news of the retreat to Kai'rienne and agrees it is a good plan. He places Tam al'Thor in charge of his combined forces: the Wolf Guard, the Ghealdanin and the Mayeners. Tam protests at first but Pairin declares him a Lord and steward of the Two Rivers, giving him a position and authority the others can respect. 

Pairin feels Rand's pull; he will need to go to him soon. Gaul casts asides Pairin's objections and agrees to join him on his mission. Just before he leaves Dain Bornhauld tells him the truth about his family: that it was Ordeith who ordered them murdered when Pairin's father insulted him. Pairin is angry and hurt but he knows he must continue with his work. Pairin has a gateway opened to Merrilor and once there convinces some Asha'man to open a gateway for him to Rand at Shay'ole Ghoul. 

Pairin and Rand talk of the dangers of entering Tel'aran'rhiod in the flesh but Rand eventually agrees to open a gateway for Pairin to do so. It is also agreed an Asha'man will open a gateway at the same time each day so Pairin can re-enter the waking world. Pairin and Gaul then enter the World of Dreams in the flesh to hunt Slayer.





Chapter 14. Doses of Forkroot.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


The World of Dreams is dying and Pairin and Gaul find themselves in the middle of a storm. Pairin realizes it must be because they are too close to Shay'ole Ghoul and shifts with the Eye’eel to a familiar plain to the south. 

Pairin makes Gaul promise to obey him and not fight Slayer, only to defend himself if he attacks. He explains that their task is to find the artifact that prevents gateways being opened to the Black Tower. They shift to the barrier created by the Dreamspike and Pairin penetrates it. 

When they reach the walls of the Black Tower, Pairin is surprised by the appearance of a short woman with silver hair in which he smells Lanfear (Moonhunter), despite her changed appearance. She tells Pairin she wants vengeance against the person who caused her imprisonment, then she looks at the sky seeming alarmed and disappears.



Point of view: Androl Genhald.


Toevienne is Turned easily because it is easier for male channelers to turn females and vice versa. The reason the Dreadlords are having such a hard time Turning Logain is because they are all male. Toevienne goes to Logain and tells him to stop resisting. She orders the others to put Logain into position so he can be Turned. Emarin has gone through two Turning sessions, and though he has not Turned, he is whimpering and crying. Logain has survived almost 12 sessions without Turning. Hessalam arrives with several Eyes Sedai of the Black Ajah, including all the Reds who came to the Black Tower with Pevara. Pevara is awake but drowsy and unable to channel. Logain screams in pain while being Turned, something Androl hasn't heard before. Androl is shielded, which is only done to captives as the the forkroot fades. Androl knows they're going to try and Turn him soon.

Androl notices signs of madness in Evin, so he coughs to draw Evin to him. Evin tells Androl to be quiet and not make the others angry. He says he's convinced the others to Turn Androl, instead of killing him as planned. Evin tells him that he'll be taken next, after Logain. Evin says now that Taim has women the Turning will go quickly. Androl says he'll swear to serve the Dark One but Evin says Taim won't accept an oath - Androl must be Turned.  

Androl tells Evin that he overheard Abors is upset that Evin was Turned and may be planning to kill him. Evin thanks Androl and then attacks Abors, who drops Androl's shield. Abors dies. Androl burns Emarin's, Pevara's, and his bonds away with Fire. He sees a dais at the far end of a room with Logain tied to a chair in the middle, surrounded by a double ring of Myrddraal and women. Evin and Mishraile are wrestling with a knife on the floor. Emarin and Pevara are dosed with forkroot and can't channel. 

Androl holds the Power and tries to open a gateway to Canler's store to, seemingly, no avail. He whispers a plea for help. Taim kills Evin and turns toward Androl. Androl stops trying to make a gateway and throws a weave of Fire at Taim, which Taim easily dissipates. Taim is standing on the dais next to Logain. Taim throws Androl against the wall with Air and pulls him across the room. Hessalam tells Taim he doesn't have as much control as he indicated and says she will take charge. Taim informs her she won't be taking control as he holds "the keys" in his hands (the seals). Hessalam is surprised and asks if he really managed to stole them. Androl, in Taim's opinion, is not worth shielding and he throws another weave at the distracted Taim, who drops him. Taim tells Mishraile to kill the captives and says they will take the rest of the Black Tower's men and relocate the Turning project to Shay'ole Ghoul.  

Taim sends balefire in Androl's direction. In desperation, Androl manages to open a gateway the size of the width of a coin, catching Taim's balefire in it. The room goes silent. Canler and the Two Rivers boys burst into the room. Taim yells that they're being attacked. 



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin notices that the dome seems to be centered on a building project. Pairin positions Gaul onto the top of a building where the Eye’eel can watch with his bow ready. 

Pairin sets out searching for the dreamspike carefully but nearly walks into the guards. He is considering if the Asha'man are Darkfriends or not when Lanfear appears again. She tells him the two men have been Turned and says they will never serve as well as if they came willingly. The Asha'man are drinking wine when all of a sudden they collapse. Lanfear admits she dosed them with forkroot and that she is helping Pairin because she is fond of him. She also tells him she is no longer one of the Forsaken because the Dark One found out she was about to help Lews Therin win. As suddenly as she appeared she disappears again. 

Pairin approaches the two sleeping men, finds the dreamspike and looks around for Slayer. Lanfear appears again and informs him that Slayer is not there. When Pairin asks where she keeps going she explains that the Dark One is searching for her and if she is found she would be destroyed. She also tells Pairin she needs him to win and for her to be by his side when he does. She even gives him instructions on how to use the dreamspike. They talk a little longer about the Turning process and why Lanfear chose to be one of the Forsaken. Despite her help, Pairin refuses to believe she has changed. She disappears again. 

Pairin returns to Gaul. Pairin tells him that they will wait to see if Slayer will arrive and if he doesn't, they will find him near the wolves.



Point of view: Androl Genhald.


During the fight, Canler tells Androl that they heard Androl begging for help, so they decided to come attack Taim's men. Apparently the gateway Androl wove earlier had opened so narrowly that he hadn't been able to see it. He tries to weave a small gateway and suddenly the wall blocking gateways vanishes. Canler and the Two Rivers boys are beginning to lose the fight. Androl creates a gateway the size of a large wagon in front of some Dreadlords and makes it open a few feet behind them. The Dreadlords' own weaves travel through the gateway and come out behind them, killing them and the remaining Myrddraal. He breaks Logain's bonds with a small gateway and opens another gateway under Logain's chair, dropping Logain somewhere far from the Black Tower. Hessalam, Taim, and a couple others escape through a gateway. Androl opens a gateway as wide as the floor, and the remaining Dreadlords drop hundreds of feet, presumably to their deaths.





Chapter 15. Your Neck in a Cord.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


As Mat dangles from a balcony three stories up the Tarasin Palace, he consoles himself by thinking that it isn't the hardest place he's ever tried to break into. He makes his way onto the balcony while rehearsing how he will tell Tuon that Galgan was betraying her and she should leave the city. 

After reaching her balcony and catching his breath, he goes to enter the room. Before he is through the door, something is shot from the shadows. Selucia reveals herself to be Tuon's bodyguard as she levels a crossbow at Mat. The two banter with Selucia very nearly making a joke and coming very close to guessing the reason Mat lost his eye. She dismisses the idea that Galgan would assassinate Tuon while also reminding Mat that the Empress' name is now Fortuona. She shows him a secret passage that will lead to the palace gardens, where Mat will find Tuon. Mat thanks her, although she questions if it is for telling him where Tuon was or not killing him. He replies it is for not calling him "Highness."



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand walks through Elayne's camp accompanied by a pair of Maidens. Everything in the camp is quiet so as to avoid attracting the Trollocs. He ruminates on how Elayne asked him to reveal himself when he visits the camp as they fight for him. 

He comes across Ban al'Seen and Dav al'Thone. He tells them that they have the most important task: watching over his father. Rand walks into the tent to find his father, Tam looking over maps. Rand presents him with a replacement sword for the one he was unable to return. Tam believes it is too fine, but Rand insists on it being a thank you gift. They discuss the flame and the void and Tam reveals that it was never about archery or swords. Rather, it is about inner peace. 

The two go outside and Tam convinces his son to duel with him. Rand is hesitant as he hasn't practiced the sword since losing his hand, but Tam wraps a cloth around one of his hands and agrees to duel one-handed, on a level with Rand. Tam has the early advantage, easily out-dueling Rand, who has not practiced sword forms since losing his hand to Semirhage. Rand quickly becomes frustrated, thinking to himself that he will never be proficient in sword-fighting ever again, and that siedeen is a much more powerful weapon. Tam continues to test Rand's limits, and Rand grows increasingly resentful of his injury, until he realizes that Tam is also fighting one-handed, and if Tam has overcome this barrier, so can Rand. Taking Tam's advice, he let's go of his emotions, and wins the practice duel.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat makes his way to the gardens. He finds Tuon practicing hand combat forms and admires her beauty from the shadows so as not to distract her. He asks himself if he loves her, but the question makes him uncomfortable. 

Something moves out of the corner of his eye, but he dismisses it as a gardener. He tries to look again and cannot focus on the person that is moving towards Tuon. The guards don't notice him either. Almost unconsciously, he pulls out a knife from his sleeve and throws it at the man. Tuon tries to pin down the attacker but misses, as does Mat's second knife, and the Gray Man escapes. 

Mat tells her about Galgan and she also dismisses the idea. Karede arrives and offers his life to repay his shame. Tuon refuses, and tells him that the Prince of Ravens will teach him how to spot a Gray Man. She dismisses everyone in order to spend time with Mat. She unceremoniously disrobes and says that it is a reward for saving her life. Mat asks if she loves him, but she replies she is with him because the omens say she must be. She concedes, however, that it is good to see him again. Mat accepts that for the time being.





Chapter 16. A Silence Like Screaming.






Point of view: Loial.


Loial reminisces about his experiences with humans outside the stedding, and admits to himself that he always secretly wished to be hasty. He wonders at the brevity of human life, and how exciting it must be.  

His attention turns to the woods as he walks with Erith, Elder Haman, and a large force of Ogier armed with axes. He thinks of the wood dying around him, and how the Trollocs and the Dark One's touch have killed many beautiful trees. His anger rises as he spots a Fist of Trollocs. 

As the Ogier begin their war song, he joins his voice with theirs while slaying Trollocs.



Point of view: Galadedrid Dawmodred.


Galaad watches the Ogier fight as his forces retreat through the woods. The Whitecloaks and Andoran forces are stunned at the brutality with which the Ogier slaughter the Shadowspawn. Golever argues that the Ogier are Darkfriends running a scheme to get their trust. Galaad is far from convinced.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Mworane explains how she used to spend so much time trying to figure out what goes on in Rand's head. He admits that he should have trusted her. To illustrate that he does now, he shares his plan for confronting the Dark One: He intends to kill Shai'tan. Mworane argues with Rand, saying that the Dark One is an integral part of the Pattern and cannot be slain. Rand counters that the Dark One exists outside the pattern, and therefore can be slain. But first Rand must go to Ebou Dar to meet with the Shawn'chin and bring them to his side. Mworane tells him that the pact is simply a piece of paper and it is distracting him from his goal.



Point of view: Mworane Dawmodred.


Mworane thinks on how Rand is an odd mixture of self-effacement and pride. She sips tea that was prepared by Rand and is therefore more fragrant and tasteful than it had been in even before the supplies started to spoil.



Point of view: Al'LAN Mandragoran.


Andere carries the banner of Malkier as he and LAN are joined by more Malkieri. LAN sees the smoke from Fal Dara and Fal Moran which were torched by their own people to avoid providing any sustenance to the Trollocs. LAN and his fellow soldiers fight through the ranks of Trollocs even as the battle descends into chaos. He takes down two Fades, killnig fifty Trollocs. LAN asks Deepe to send the signal of a red streak of light to indicate the forces should retreat. Their job is to hit quick and retreat. 

Prince Kaisel points out the Queen of Saldaea marching into battle. The Prince doesn't think it to be right, but LAN assures him that the woman of Saldea are quite tough. The battle has finally broken off and the the Trollocs flood the field searching for anything to eat; even their own dead. Lord Agelmar realized this at the same time and signaled for the troops to return to the field and slaughter the hungry Trollocs. The Dreadlords realize what is happening and move back to the battle. M'Hael is spotted and in a flash of light LAN is thrown from his horse. He is rescued by Prince Kaisel, but looks back to see the mangled body of Deepe.





Chapter 17. Older, More Weathered.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat wakes up outside on the grass after the previous night’s events. He is interrupted by voices talking about the escaped Gray Man. He's quite embarrassed by his and Tuon's nakedness even though Musenge is bowing his head towards the ground. A Deathwatch Guard approaches and tells them that another suspected assassin has been captured. Fortuona bids him to bring the assassin forward as she gets dressed.

The assassin is actually Rand. Tuon shouts for her damane to be brought quickly. Rand remains nonchalant. Mat, still thinking Rand is a madman, appeals to him to remain calm, despite no obvious signs of hostility. 

Mat is caught up in air. Rand reveals that he is shielded and could not have done it, and Mat realizes that Tuon has stolen his medallion. Mat and Rand quickly compare notes about what the other has been up to, each trying to one-up the other. 

Tuon believes Rand to have surrendered himself to the Shawn'chin, claiming that he and his ancestors forgot their oaths and thus making the Shawn'chin the sole heirs of Artur Hawkwing. In turn, Rand asks what she would have done if they had arrived at the shores only to find the armies of Artur Hawkwing still ruling. Tuon insists that it is her right to rule the lands as she is a descendant of Hawkwing himself. Rand proves her logic is wrong as he is Lews Therin Telamon reborn, so his rule supersedes her own. At this, the grass begins to grow more green around Rand. Mat notices that Rand is singing very softly, and as he does so the green spreads and sprouts more trees and growth.

He again asks Tuon to fight with him in the Last Battle. Mat, after talking his way out of his bonds, convinces Tuon to use Rand to their advantage. She will have him secure their borders in Altara. Rand grants her claim on Tarabon and half of Almoth Plain, but he refuses them the right to capture more damane and demands that Tuon release all the damane the Shawn'chin have captured. After negotiating, Rand compromises and allows her to keep those already collared. The Empress agrees to the conditions and will sign the Dragon's Peace, allowing Rand to go in freedom.

With the agreement made, everyone retreats to go prepare for war. Before he leaves, Mat tells Rand that he saved Mworane, thus winning their boasting competition. As Mat turns and leaves, he hears the laughter of the Dragon Reborn.





Chapter 18. To Feel Wasted.






Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Gawyn is on the field near where the Eyes Sedai first fought the Trollocs. The battle seems to be going better than expected. They have been fighting for a week at their current spot in a Kandori field. With a sword and a shield Gawyn has positioned himself in front of Igwayne's horse. Gawyn fights a few oncoming Trollocs while the Eyes Sedai use the One Power to rip them apart. The Eyes Sedai have been fighting on a rotating basis through the grueling fight and as the next pair arrives Igwayne and Silviana exit the battlefield. Gawyn knows that he is needed, but still feels as if he is being wasted. 

He and Igwayne step into the command tent to greet Gareth Bryne and Sewan. They discuss troop movements and the importance of the Eyes Sedai in the battle. After discussing Taim and the Dreadlords the pair leave so that Igwayne can get some sleep. 

Lie’winn and Bayle Domon are waiting outside the tent. Lie’winn expresses annoyance that Igwayne doesn't trust her and she tells Gawyn that she will serve him if she cannot serve Igwayne. Lie’winn and Domon leave to bring Gawyn food as he settles to the ground and contemplates the black rings he stole from the Shawn'chin assassins. He asks Lie’winn about them as she returns with his food. She reacts with a hiss and tells them that the Empress gives them to Bloodknives. The rings are dangerous and with one touch of blood the ring will become activated which will become deadly. He pockets the rings and tells himself that the way of a Warder is to protect her on the battlefield and not to ride out like some hero. 

Still, he does not tell Igwayne about the rings.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand thinks about the first time he saw a Trolloc during the Age of Legends. He weaves Fire and Air into a pack of Trollocs and Pairin's men raise their arms in thanks. For this fight he has disguised his face to look like that of Jewr Grady. Lews Therin had known of Aginor's experiments, but was still surprised when first faced with a Trolloc. As the clouds begin to part in the sky around him, Rand realizes it's time to go. He drops the disguise and weaves Air, Fire, and Water to create a column of light stretching from him to the sky. Soldiers cheer for him. 

He Travels back to the Field of Merrilor where Min is waiting for him along with his Maiden guards. She notes that he looks sad and he realizes that the time to strike at Shay'ole Ghoul has arrived. Cadsuane approaches him and they discuss how Rand has been giving things away to people in preparation for his death. His expectation of death has Cadsuane worried. He replies that he has embraced inevitability. She, in return, asks if he has a gift for her. He replies that he only has gifts for those he cares about. The two remain amiable and Rand asks her to give aid to Aviendha in fighting the Forsaken. She agrees and informs him that his men in the Black Tower have freed themselves.



Point of view: Al'LAN Mandragoran.


The Malkieri are remembering Deepe and the other fallen soldiers. LAN raises his glass but remains outside the circle. Saluting the fallen has become a nightly tradition. LAN finds it encouraging that the men think of the Asha'man as one of them. 

He turns to walk through the camp taking some time to reassure Mandarb that they will rest soon. He promises that he and Nine'eev will take back Malkier and make it bloom again. Queen Ethenielle's swordbearer, Baldhere, approaches. They both find the act of doing something simple and familiar, like rubbing down their mounts, helps them think. Baldhere asks if LAN is concerned about Lord Agelmar and the erratic choices the man seems to be making. LAN explains away some of the mistakes that were made, but agrees to keep an eye on him. After finishing with his horse, LAN makes his way over to Lord Agelmar to study his maps and notes. The two discuss Baldhere and LAN eventually backs off saying that he trusts Agelmar's wisdom.





Chapter 19. The Choice of a Patch.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne is reminiscing about her childhood when Bashere arrives. The two look down at the Alguenya river. They discuss the trap that they have walked into. Scouts have spotted a Trolloc army coming from the north and heading to Kai'rienne; a city now filled with refugees. 



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne enters Tel'aran'rhiod. She meets with the Wise Ones in the Heart of the Stone. She overhears them discussing Bair seeing through the eyes of her descendents on her third visit to Roy'deonne as Aviendha did. Igwayne approaches the group and they ask her if she has noticed the odd deep black cracks in the rocks. They seem to appear more frequently when the Dreadlords fight. Igwayne says that they are probably caused by balefire which Eyes Sedai are forbidden to use. Amys tells Igwayne that they will not be visiting the World of Dreams much anymore, as it has become dangerous to be there. They say their farewells to each other. 

Igwayne awakes in her quarters at the White Tower and meets with Rand. He presents her with a ribbon, which initially makes her angry, but he tells her that he wants to make amends and to go into the Last Battle as friends. He says Igwayne was always like a sibling to him and that the sibling he does have doesn't know him. This shocks Gawyn to learn that Rand is the half brother of Galaad. Igwayne shows Rand the seals at his request. He reveals that the ones she has are fakes. 

The Dark One holds the keys to his own prison.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Not having people look at him is frustrating Mat. There is a freckled so'jhin among servants who he would like make smiling.  He is introduced to Nata, his personal tailor who is making his new regalia. Mat just barely keeps from having his hat burned. They make him a ceremonial warriors outfit which seems too ridiculous and overdone to Mat. They lacquer his fingernails making him one the Blood. He comes to the realization that, despite avoiding them for years, he's turned into a bloody nobleman.





Chapter 20. Into Thankan'dar.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


After her meeting with Rand, Igwayne returns to the Kandori battlefield. She uses Vora's sa'angreal to hurl large, boulder-sized fireballs at Trollocs. She exits through a gateway with Gawyn, Romanda, Lee’ahnna, Silviana, Raemassa, and several Warders onto the hilltop she just cleared. 

The Trollocs scatter as the attack turns on them, but as more coordinated groups of Trollocs linked to a Fade charge the hilltop the group realizes they cannot hold their position. They retreat through a gateway back to their camp. 

Igwayne senses something is not right just before a gateway larger than any she has ever seen opens up before them. She sees an enormous army wearing strange clothes made of knee-length padded armor reinforced with chain. The army is accompanied by hundreds of women who can channel wearing stiff dresses of black silk. She tells her Eyes Sedai to release the One Power so that they cannot be sensed. Romanda does not listen and begins to weave a gateway. She never gets the chance to finish as she is obliterated where she stands. The group scrambles through the camp and Lelaine says that the invaders are Sharan. 

Their command tent is assaulted with the One Power. Igwayne and Gawyn react in time, but Igwayne searches for signs of Lelaine and wonders if Sewan or Bryne were in there as well. Igwayne and Gawyn take cover under a destroyed wagon, covered by Gawyn's Warder cloak. The pair hide for over an hour. Igwayne silently resolves to stay strong and survive, but also allows herself to be held by Gawyn. 



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha crawls across the ground with Rhuarc to her left and Shaen to her right. Amys accompanies all of them. No one objected to a Wise One joining the advanced scouts. 

The air is cold with air that smells like it came from a tomb. Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day catches up to them. The Eye’eel have agreed to follow a wetlander general, but it did not sit well with them. They discuss the need to create a distraction so that Rand can slip in to face the Dark One. They speculate on how long the duel will last, and realize it could last for hours or years. They agree to cover Rand's back as long as it is required of them. 

They return to Rand who is accompanied by Mworane and Nine'eev. Rand tells Aviendha about his plan to kill the Dark One and she counters with the idea of taking him as gai'shain, hinting at her disagreement with his plan. 

Back through a gateway to their camp, Aviendha releases the One Power and walks with Rand to this tent. The others walk ahead. He tells her that the dagger worked; the Dark One could not see him. He also tells her about the fake seals and how he is expecting the Forsaken to arrive once he begins to fight the Dark One. The two walk up to the tent where Min is with Nine'eev and Mworane. Callandor rests on Mworane's lap. Rand asks if Min would go and keep an eye on Igwayne and the Shawn'chin who he has sent to fight together.

With all in place, Rand finally announces that the next day he will invade Shay'ole Ghoul.





Chapter 21. Not a Mistake to Ignore.






Point of view: Sewan Sawnchay.


Sewan tries to help with Healing after escaping the Sharan attack and is sent away by Yukiri due to Sewan’s exhaustion. Sewan orders Haerm to search for the Amyrlin, convinced that she has survived the ambush.

Gareth Bryne and Sewan discuss the losses, one out of every two men, after the last attack. Bryne is upset that he made a mistake in not attacking the Trollocs sooner and being too careful. He realizes that the Shadowspawn's behavior indicated that an ambush was coming, and he missed the signs. He says that he was trained better than this and he could not ignore this mistake.



Point of view: Lyrelle Arienwin.


Lyrelle is in charge of the sisters set to watch the Black Tower. They enter the Black Tower to bond the Asha’man they were promised. 

Pevara joins the group at Logain’s request. Pevara explains that bonding Asha’man does not compel them as is possible with ordinary men. Lyrelle insists on going though with bonding them. 



Point of view: Androl Genhald.


Androl provides the Tower Eyes Sedai camped outside the Black Tower with 46 men who volunteered to be Warders, as he has already been bonded by Pevara. He tells Lyrelle they may bond any men they can ask. All of the other Asha’man are away on other business, and Androl has hidden Jonneth, Emarin, and Canler. Lyrelle instructs the Eyes Sedai to select their Warders. 

Androl slips into one of the huts and Pevara follows. Logain has been poring over the things they found in Taim's rooms. He is darker, talks less, and Pevara worries that the Turning has broken him inside. Androl states that they follow Logain's orders, because Logain gave them hope, and that they'll honor the Dragon’s last order to think of themselves not as weapons, but as men.





Chapter 22. The Wyld.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne awakens, still hiding under Gawyn's Warder cloak. She is shocked to find that she had fallen asleep. She observes the Sharans rounding up prisoners, and notes the strange tattoos on various Sharans of different stations. As the prisoners are rounded up, a male Sharan channeler uses the Power to brand them with their own tattoos. Suddenly, the air bends and tears, and a man steps through a gateway to the campsite. He regards the new prisoners and praises the Sharans for their work. As he speaks, he seems to sense a female channeler hidden in the camp. Igwayne is terrified she has been discovered, until she sees Lee’ahnna being captured and brought to the man. He introduces himself as Bao, the Wyld, who leads the Sharans. He orders Lee’ahnna to tell Lews Therin that he has come to slay him. He tells Lee’ahnna that he was once called Barid Bel and Igwayne realizes, to her horror, that the man is Demandred.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


The wolves tell Pairin that Moonhunter and Heartseeker (unknown to Pairin, except that she must be a Forsaken) walk the dream. 

Pairin and Gaul stalk Heartseeker and find her searching through papers in the command tent at the Field of Merrilor. She almost notices them watching, but Pairin creates a wall in front of them, translucent on their side, but colored with the image of what is behind them on the other, so that Hessalam cannot see them. Apparently unable to find what she is looking for, she begins to float toward the black clouds. Pairin follows her into the space between Tel'aran'rhiod and the waking world, where dreams appear as pinpricks of light. He observes Hessalam speaking into a dream. She finally notices him and attacks. He retreats to the Field of Merrilor, where they engage in a battle of wills, using the World of Dreams to attack each other. Pairin  imagines Hessalam's mouth stuffed with forkroot, but she is able to spit it out. He imagines ropes, but she incinerates them and steps through a gateway into a mass of Trollocs and Fades. 

Cyndane appears and tells Pairin that should have killed Hessalam. Pairin guessed that the woman was Graendal and Cyndane advises Pairin that they are to use her new name, Hessalam, which means “without forgiveness”. She tells Pairin that he could learn to shift between the dream world and the real world. 

She then tells him that Hessalam was invading the dream of Davram Bashere, his wife’s father.     





Chapter 23. At the Edge of Time.







Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Gawyn, looking for an escape, scouts ahead while leaving his warder’s cloak on Igwayne who is following not far behind. He tells her that he will toss a stone as a warning if he finds anything. He slips on one of the rings of the Bloodknives and becomes nearly invisible, especially in shadow. He reminds himself not to let the power of the ring make him too bold as it also gives him a little extra speed.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne follows behind Gawyn. She begins to worry about Demandred leading the Sharans, whether enough Eyes Sedai survived to face him, and why he sent for Rand. She reminds herself that her strength and authority come from her control, understanding, and care and not merely her ability to channel. As she encourages herself, she hears Gawyn tossing pebbles. She crouches by a half-burned tent and sees the gruesome corpse of a burned Shienaran. She senses a channeler behind her moments before a shield is slammed between her and the Source. Igwayne attacks with her belt knife, but the tall, slender Sharan woman binds her with Air. Helpless, Igwayne allows her terror to build to alert Gawyn through their bond.  She feels him moving closer, but still far off. Lie’winn knocks the channeler unconscious by smashing her head and rescues Igwayne. Gawyn and Bayle rejoin the women. They quietly escape the outskirts of the camp and Igwayne feels safe enough to create a gateway to Skim to the White Tower.



Point of view: Aviendha.


The assault on Thawkahndar begins. Aviendha leads a two-pronged attack of Ash'aman, Eye’eel Wise Ones, the freed Da'MAW'nee Alivia, and Eyes Sedai with their Warders into the valley to destroy the Shadow-forgers and release their captives. The surprise attack catches the Shadowspawn off guard which allows Mworane, Nine'eev, Thom, and Rand to slip into the Pit of Doom. Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day moves his forces in behind the Eye’eel to secure the rest of the valley. Suddenly, the sun is eclipsed by something dark and solid. It strikes fear of the end of the world, awing soldiers and Trollocs alike.

Aviendha feels strong channeling from the opposite side of the valley. She organizes a circle and floods with the One Power. A loose, raw weave of Air and Fire burns from her hands across the other side of the valley. Aviendha is careful to channel weaves of Fire, but not balefire to avoid further weakening the Bore. But the other channelers shoot back bars of balefire, heedlessly. Aviendha creates a gateway behind them and immediately shields herself with chunk of rock from another blast of balefire. As it disintegrates, the men and women of her circle dash through the gateway behind her. Cracks into pure darkness form in the rocks nearby, showing damage to the pattern itself. Aviendha burns a column of fire through Duhara Basaheen, a coppery-skinned Domani formerly of the Red Ajah. Two women channelers remain and throw weaves back and forth. The stronger woman vanishes without using a gateway, as if folding in on herself and leaving an odd tremble to the air. The last woman, Falion Bhoda, screams upon being abandoned from their circle and Aviendha tears off her arms with a weave. 

In the aftermath, Bera Harkin heals Aviendha's singed eyes and Sarene Nemdahl confirms the two dead women as Duhara and Falion who had been raised from the Black Ajah to Dreadlords. Aviendha splits the single circle into three smaller circles led by herself, Bera, and Amys. One circle will provoke the Trollocs and reveal their channeler, while the other two circles conceal themselves then attack from the sides. She senses increased channeling activity as Cadsuane leads Eyes Sedai and Asha'man, opening gateways for Domani and Tairen armies. Anticipating a mess of channeling, she establishes Traveling grounds and maintains tight control over channelers to pinpoint attacks by the Forsaken.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand approaches the base of the mountain that is Shay'ole Ghoul. He orders no channeling until the strike on the Dark one to conserve his strength. Thom volunteers to guard the entrance into the cave, while joking about his excellent view of the battle and the chance to compose a ballad or two. Rand smiles at Thom's ability to smile even at the end of time itself.

Nine'eev suggests that Rand should rest, eyeing the old wound in his side that has re-opened. His blood runs down his leg and into his boot, leaving a bloody footprint behind:



The Dragon’s blood stains the rock of Shay'ole Ghoul 


He unsheathes Callandor and asks Mworane and Nine'eev to form a circle. Mworane asks if one of the women should lead to allow him to use Callandor safely. Rand replies that he doesn't intend to be safe, to Mworane and Nine'eev's dismay. While he leads the circle, he remains vulnerable to another's strike that might seize control of him. As Rand questions whether he planned this well enough and whether it was the right time, a voice booms:



IT IS TIME. LET THE TASK BE UNDERTAKEN.
IT IS TIME. LET THE TASK BE UNDERTAKEN.


Rand is not surprised, as he had heard this voice once before now. He had been hoping for it. 





Chapter 24. To Ignore the Omens.






Point of view: Fortuona Athaem Devi Paendrag.


Fortuona muses over the differences between Beslan Mitsobar's quick obedience versus Mat's seemingly chaotic behavior. Mat furiously curses out the commanders and reorganizes their forces in preparation. He baffles the Blood and keeps commanders constantly off-balance with his seemingly erratic, irreverent behavior. Should she have Mat imprisoned because he would never be her rival as per Seachan custom? And yet, there were so many omens nudging her towards this direction. She summons him and proclaims that he is to be named "Knotai". He is also named as Rodholder, which means that if General Galgan fell, then Knotai would assume control over the armies. It also meant Knotai must be included in all war meetings and that General Galgan would need to listen to Knotai's advice and incorporate it into the battle plans. 

They learn of the assault on the Ahmerlin’s camp and Knotai wants the armies to move immediately. As Fortuona is the penultimate leader of the forces, Knotai convinces her to give the order to move. Fortuona seriously considers ignoring the treaty and her oaths to take advantage of the vulnerable Eyes Sedai and seize many damane. She holds order in one hand and chaos in the other. Eventually, she agrees with Knotai since she had reasoned to protect this world in its darkest days and destroy the Shadown utterly.



Point of view: Al'LAN Mandragoran.


LAN and Andere await the latest Trolloc battle. Agelmar has chosen a place protected by a river to the west with surrounding  hills for archers. The plan is for LAN to be in the middle to hit the Trollocs head-on, while cavalry flanks the sides to break up the Trollocs. LAN and Andere both agree that the plan seems sound with no obvious mistakes. They were killing Trollocs effectively and minimizing their own casualties with carefully picked battles, and yet they were still retreating and unable to hold back the Trolloc advance through Shynarr. 

Agelmar had complained of troubling dreams, but it was to be expected considering the overwhelming odds they were up against.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


According to Bashere's battle plans, Elayne positions her troops on the far northern side of Kai'rienne to face the Trolloc army ahead. Her entire forces are exhausted but they must rely solely on tired men and Aludra's dragons, since the Kinswoman are reserved only to make gateways to the Mayene hospitals. The overall plan is to destroy the northern Trolloc army ahead and then face the southern Trolloc army a day's march behind.

As she addresses her troops, the sun is eclipsed and cries of despair arise from the army. She abandons her prepared speech of reassurances and instead delivers an impromptu rallying cry. She urges the troops to see spilling their blood as their duty, their passion, their fire, and their resistance against the Shadow. She shouts out they will not only defend, but bring a fierce, furious attack to destroy the Shadow. The men raise their weapons and thump the ground in stoic determination.

Elayne insists on being on the frontlines instead of behind in the command tent since she is one of the few channelers of strength. Birgitte tries to persuade her to protect her babes. Elayne replies that everyone will be slaughtered anyways unless they fight back. She threatens to sever the Warder bond. Birgitte finally persuades Elayne that being in the middle is more effective and out of the initial arrow attack. The unified infantry of Andoran, Cairhienin, Ghealdanin, and Whitecloaks form a massive arc about a mile outside Kai'rienne's walls. Tahlmahness and Aludra sit atop nearby hills with the dragons positioned, while the rest of the Red Band and Mayener Winged guards are prepared for flanking maneuvers. The battle begins and Elayne realizes that Birgitte had been right to fear the power of the dragons as they turn the northern Trollocs forces into a red splatter of body parts.



Point of view: Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day.


Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day still marvels at the abundance of troops and resources at his disposal. Despite this, he recognizes he's fighting a losing battle against countless Shadowspawn, including dozens of Dreadlords and possibly Forsaken. Positioned on a ridge overlooking the narrow pass into Shay'ole Ghoul, he prepares to protect Rand from enemy reinforcements by raining down arrows into the natural bottleneck. Zaida informs him that the Windfinders continue to fight the Dark One's tempests using the Bowl of the Winds. Horns alert them of incoming Trolloc hordes and Ee'two'rahl'day trembles on remembering the massacre at Maradon. King Alsalam steadies his old friend. Ee'two'rahl'day refocuses on defending the valley, even for months, to buy the Dragon Reborn enough time to defeat the Dark One. 

Ee'two'rahl'day, normally empathetic towards his enemies, revels in seeing the Trollocs shrieking and dying as burning logs are rolled down the valley. The nightmare at Maradon had ruined him, made his hands tremble on hearing the horns of war. So now, he would ruin them. Myrddraal whip the Trollocs into a frenzy, right into a twisted wall of brambles. Ee'two'rahl'day had been resourceful, knowing that he couldn't plant spikes into solid rock and that rock mounds would only slow down the Trollocs marginally. But, relatively light bales of thornbushes with five-inch spikes could be quickly setup by the untrained Dragonsworn. This left the bulk of the Trollocs frozen in the pass where they were at the mercy of boulders, arrows, more burning logs, and anything else Ee'two'rahl'day's forces could find. The Trollocs scramble in the mass confusion only to bleed, trample, and die. They break through after an hour only to hit a second, higher wall of brambles. For now, the Trolloc army retreats. Ee'two'rahl'day had setup seven of these, but did not rejoice, knowing they'd return tomorrow with better cutting weapons and more shields.





Chapter 25. Quick Fragments.






Point of view: Sewan Sawnchay.


Sewan breathes easier when Igwayne rejoins her and Bryne, along with Doesine, Syreen and several other Sitters. They have set up camp at the southeastern tip of Kandor because Bryne decided the terrain gave them a small advantage. 

Sewan tests Igwayne's identity, and Igwayne passes. Igwayne commands the army to hold position at the river unless losses become intolerable. Raken scouts fly overhead. Rand's message through Min confirms the Shawn'chin's alliance against the Shadow. Meanwhile, Min serves as a clerk for the supply masters. Igwayne orders the battle lines ready and caution against potential Shawn'chin betrayal. 



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


As he enters the cavern, the Dark One senses him, so the dagger had worked to shield him from the Shadow up until that point. The cavern seemed to lower as he walks with Nine'eev at his left and Mworane at his right. Rand announces that he won’t come to Shai’tan on his knees and the rocks retreat. 

He senses though his bond that one of the women was in trouble. Mworane cautions Rand to not touch the darkness at the centre of the Pit. As Moridin speaks, Rand raises Callandor and its glow reveals a husk in the shape of a man with no eyes. Moridin explains that his master does not need a vessel anymore and he has given an origin to what is behind. Rand says that there is nothing there and Moridin agrees gladly. Rand waves Mworane and Nine'eev back as Moridin raises his sword. 

Moridin denies his chance to return to the Light, instead holding to the promise of oblivion. He attacks.



Point of view: Al'LAN Mandragoran.


After suffering some wounds, LAN orders for his troops to fall back. He sees two sets of reserves come to close the gap that they had left causing them to collide with one another. He decides to check on this error.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Within Tel'aran'rhiod, Pairin notes that Rand has entered the Pit of Doom. Pairin had seen Hessalam earlier and tracked her here, but she Traveled to the real world. 

Pairin is told by the wolves that Slayer is in the passage to the Pit of Doom. Pairin sees him drawing his bow to his cheek aiming at two men locked in battle with two women stood to the side. Pairin slaps the arrow away with his hammer and Slayer shifts.

Pairin and Gaul follow him into a group of the red-veiled Eye’eel. They battle and the wolves join the fight. Slayer and Pairin continue fighting with Slayer sometimes shifting into the real world. As the waking world and Tel'aran'rhiod are close each other here, Pairin sometimes sees the reflections of the Battle of Shay'ole Ghoul, mainly fighting men and Trollocs, but also two inhuman snake-like figures he think to reflect a different world. Pairin engages two of the red-veiled channelers and takes them captive.  Cyndane tells him to kill them. Pairin asks if killing them in Tel'aran'rhiod would kill them forever, and she states that it doesn’t work that way for men. Cyndane states that the teeth were filed on these two and that meant that they had been Turned. Gaul slits their throats in mercy. Pairin gets Cyndane to heal Gaul. 

Pairin knows that the veil between the two worlds was thin here and he sends a message to Nine'eev that if she wants to make a gateway, then she’ll have to create it in front of the cavern. He placed the dreamspike so that the bubble was large enough to fit inside the cavern and shelter Rand, the Bore and those with him. All of the borders save the one at the front of the cavern were inside rock, thus inaccessible. Slayer would have to enter through the front. Pairin sets the wolves to protect the entrance and warn him if Slayer returns. 

Pairin sets out to discover what Hessalam was doing with Bashere.





Chapter 26. Considerations.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne and Fortuona meet to discuss joining forces against the Shadow. During their clash of wills, Igwayne harshly criticizes the treatment of damane. Fortuona asks Mat why he didn't tell her that Igwayne had been collared once, because it changes the grounds of the argument. Igwayne is baffled to hear they are married.

Igwayne reminds her that Rand promised the Shawn'chin would help. In accordance with the Dragon's Peace, Fortuona also acknowledges the nation borders as they are currently mapped and will take no marath'damane except in the lands they control, namely Altara, Amadicia, Tarabon, and Almoth Plain. Since Tremalking is mapped as Sea Folk country, Igwayne presses Fortuona to release it and the other Sea Folk isles.

Before giving her definite assent to help, Fortuona wants Igwayne to decree that any channeler in her lands who wishes to be collared must be allowed to come to Ebou Dar. Igwayne reluctantly agrees, but insists that any woman who wants to go free should also be allowed to do so.

Another argument ensues in which Igwayne says the a'dam works just as well on sul'dam, because they can learn to channel and dares Fortuona to put on the collar herself, because she once trained damane as well.

Mat goes between them and reminds them their armies need them level-headed. Fortuona promises to help and will send some sul'dam and damane to reinforce the Eyes Sedai at the ford. Before leaving, Igwayne whispers to Mat that she will find a way to free him, but he says he can manage.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne's forces surround the charging Trolloc army. After a day of fighting, Elayne is so exhausted that she faints. When she comes to again, Birgitte suggests they retreat. Back at the command post, Elayne asks Bashere if their plan is working, who bids them to have a look. Their plan is indeed working: the Trollocs are completely surrounded and being slaughtered.

Then they notice a second Trolloc army approaching from behind, although Bashere hadn't expected it before the next day. Elayne gives out orders and rides back to tell Bashere. She finds him arguing with Tam. Bashere suggests retreat, but Tahlmahness says they would sustain heavy losses if they did that.

Tam believes it was all planned out, because none of the armies had been watching their rear, thinking someone else did it, because Bashere had showed them scout reports. Elayne concludes he must be a Darkfriend, relieves him of duty and has Tahlmahness place him and his wife under guard.

She gives out orders to prepare for the second army and readies herself to fight.





Chapter 27. Friendly Fire.






Point of view: Gareth Bryne.


Holcom reports the status of the Eyes Sedai lines of defenses, which are still holding. The lancers at the ford took a lot of casualties, among them Joni Shagrin. Uno has taken up his command position.

Bryne sends Annah to ask Fortuona for cavalry reinforcements, but a raken flying overhead is killed and crushes her when it hits the ground. Min offers to go in her stead.



Point of view: Elmindreda Farshaw.


Min Travels to the Shawn'chin camp and is made to wait, because new messengers first need to be cleared. Catrona takes her to the command post, where she meets Mat. She tells him that Bryne needs cavalry reinforcements. Mat sends Tylee and her First Legion.

After Fortuona has entered the room, Min describes a Viewing she has of Fortuona to Mat. The other woman overhears and once she has ascertained that Min is what the Shawn'chin know as a Doomseer, she names Min her new Soe'feia.





Chapter 28. Too Many Men.






Point of view: al'LAN Mandragoran.


LAN learns that Agelmar has made a mistake by sending two separate reserve forces to the same point. He asks Baldhere how he would go about subtly sabotaging their army, if he could. Kaisel is aghast to hear LAN suspecting Agelmar of betraying them. Baldhere thinks something is wrong with Agelmar.

A messenger arrives with the order to pull the archers from the hilltops, just as Baldhere has suggested to leave their eastern flank open. Hoping all to be just a coincidence, LAN tells the messenger to leave the archers where they are and instead send scouts into those hills to look for a Shadowspawn force sneaking up on them.

    Point of view: Loial


Loial fought alongside the other Ogier against the second Trolloc force. They sing a song of mourning. It pains him to see humans dead around him. Their bravery to fight despite their short life span gives him new determination and he sings a song of life, making the plants around them turn green again.

    Point of view: Matrim Cauthon


Because Mat doesn't trust the accuracy of battle maps, he gets ready to see the battlefield himself. Meanwhile, he opens Min's eyes to how beneficial her newly acquired position as Fortuona's Truthspeaker would be to Rand.

When Fortuona returns, Courtani informs her of Mat's intention. Fortuona plans to accompany him to the battlefield.





Chapter 29. The Loss of a Hill.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne fights Trollocs climbing the hillside. From her vantage point she could see a trap springing around the veteran force under Joni Shagrin. Only a few cavalrymen manage to survive the slaughter.

She wants to question Bryne about how this could have been allowed to happened. Afterwards, she plans to join the troops defending the ford.



Point of view: Al'LAN Mandragoran.


LAN goes to see Agelmar in his tent, who tells him he hopes to take down the leader of the Dreadlords. Listening to Agelmar, LAN wonders if he missed something that Agelmar saw. But a messenger arrives, confirming LAN's earlier suspicion about a Shadowspawn force sneaking up on them.

He relieves Agelmar of duty and places him under guard, just as Elayne did to Bashere. Agelmar is at first outraged, but after a short cross-examination about his latest decisions he suddenly realizes the mistakes he has made and tries to kill himself.

Agelmar remembers that he has sent Tenobia to her death, just as LAN has resigned himself to their loss here.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat, Fortuona, and her entourage ride to a point overlooking the battlefield on the border to Arafel. A few hundred paces opposite the ford Mat spots Tylee's soldiers waiting. Wondering what she was up to, he asks Fortuona for five minutes on his own and rides toward their camp. Tylee says Bryne gave them the order to stay put.

Not being able to wait around any longer, Mat orders Tylee to take the right flank and Banner-General Makoti the middle; he himself will deal with the left flank and the channelers.

In the midst of battle, Mat takes out an Ayyad woman, which is rare for a man and a great honor as Fortuona later tells him. Having seen Mat fight, the Shawn'chin soldiers are in awe of him.

After the skirmish, Mat rides back to Fortuona, who is displeased about his joining the battle. But he explains he had to feel "its pulse" to know it. 

Mat demands absolute control of the Shawn'chin armies and sends Min to Igwayne to warn her that Bryne is a Darkfriend.





Chapter 30. The Way of the Predator.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin and Gaul inspect Igwayne's camp, but it hasn't been in its position long enough to have a true reflection. 

Slayer has tried attacking the bore on several occasions, but each time, wolves warn Pairin and Slayer leaves. An old wolf calls Pairin, though he doesn't recall its name and shows him Hessalam, coming out of Rhodell's tent. She immediately opens a gateway to the real world. He says they need to send warning and the wolf replies that he could do it. Pairin realizes that the wolf is Elyas. 

Pairin also realizes that Hessalam is influencing the mind of each of the great captains. They see Slayer at the entrance to the Pit of Doom and go to confront him while Elyas goes to stop Rhodell. 



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand fights Moridin, using Callandor as a sword. He thinks that in the Age of Legends, he had been the better swordsman. 

Rand asks Moridin if the Dark One punished him for thinking he was the Dark One himself, and he replies that he has, by returning him to life. During the fight, Rand misjudges the slope and falls backwards into the darkness of the Pit.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne is in a circle with twelve of the Kin, though between them, they hold little more than a single Eyes Sedai. They had won a victory against the northern Trolloc army, but are in danger of being surrounded by the southern one. The dragons are almost out of ammunition and only fire sporadically. To the east, a group of Trollocs break through the Eye’eel, killing the remaining Ogier and attacking the dragons. 

Logain arrives, with a hundred Asha'man through a large gateway and tells Elayne to pull the Ogier back so that they can hold the position. He tells her he has just managed to decipher the notes in Taim's study and that the Shadow had been planning this for a long time. He says they came to her first as the Black Tower stands with the Lion of Andor. She thinks she will probably lose half her force withdrawing. She wants him to open gateways for a retreat, but he says that with the current positions, many of her forces would be slaughtered. She says they must do it unless he can produce a miracle. Logain asks Androl how much one would cost.

Elayne joins in the circle, making fourteen women and twelve men, after which Logain is able to join. The remaining Asha'man hold back the Trollocs. Androl orders the soldiers to be moved back and Androl opens a gateway to Dragonmount, though Elayne can only see it from behind. She feels an immense heat as lava, a hundred feet across pours out into the Trollocs. He holds it for several minutes then makes two more, over the land to the east and west of Kai'rienne. Elayne says they will be able to regroup and resupply and finish off the remainder of the Trolloc horde.





Chapter 31. A Tempest of Water.






Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne arrives at the command tent, hoping to speak to Bryne, only to find it empty. She learns that Mat is leading a Shawn'chin cavalry giving the Sharans a hiding on the left flank. 

She sees Uno clambering out of the river. He tells her his force was instructed to attack the Trollocs and that Gareth Bryne would send in a reserve cavalry to defend their flanks, but that it never came. He says they must have been tricked by some traitor.

Igwayne leads the Eyes Sedai fighting Trollocs. They fight for what seems like hours, but even with the Eyes Sedai, the Trollocs have the advantage. They see Min, who they at first take for one of the Blood, riding towards them. Igwayne asks if there is a problem and Min says it depends on how much she trusts Mat. She says she trusts him to find trouble. Min says Mat thinks Gareth is a Darkfriend. Gawyn laughs and says Mat should stay out of the royal brandy. Igwayne tells Min to tell Mat that she appreciates the warning. Min tells her he seems certain and that Tuon has given him control of the Shawn'chin armies. Igwayne accepts that Mat is a good tactician, but says giving him the armies is beyond possibility. Min asks her to at least consider what Mat is saying, but she dismisses it as laughable.



Point of view: Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day.


At the mouth of the pass to the valley of Thawkahndar, Rhodell's army is fighting a Trolloc onslaught. His sleep has been troubled by nightmares. He has split his army into groups of around three thousand, using pikes and crossbowmen to break up the Trollocs and the Eye’eel to finish them. On three occasions, he has felt himself wanting to send in a direct assault, abandoning the square formations and go for blood, but he always reminds himself that they are not there for blood, but to hold. 

A storm rumbles overhead, but the Windfinders with the Bowl of the Winds are preventing it from getting severe enough to wipe his men out. The Trollocs withdraw and an army of hundreds of Myrddraal appear. He thinks he should send the cavalry in to draw pressure from the infantry, but a voice in his head is telling him to withdraw. He refuses to say it and tries to give the command to Tihera. He knows that if he orders the retreat, the Trollocs will surround them. He begins to give the order when wolves come out of the fog. A man in furs leaps for Rhodell and shoves him off the rocks, knocking him into a grateful unconsciousness.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Igwayne is in her tent, thinking of Mat and how he is a blowhard, leering at every pretty woman he meets. She thinks of how he saved Jer al'Hune from drowning and had rescued her from the Stone of Tear. She asks herself the question, how much does she trust him and realises that she does, and that while he is often wrong, when he is right he saves lives. 

She learns there has been no word from the other battlefronts and tells Gawyn to send a messenger to Kai'rienne to see how Elayne is doing. She goes for a walk until she finds Silviana, who tells her Bryne is in the mess tent. Igwayne instructs Silviana to fetch the Hall. 

She realizes she can't accuse Gareth, but she can't ignore Mat. Gawyn returns and tells her that Davram Bashere turned against Elayne and that the battle would have been lost if not for the Asha'man. Igwayne questions Gareth on some of the poor orders he sent, and on orders he didn't send. She pressures him, telling him that if not for Mat, the relief force would still be there. Bryne tells her he doesn't know what is wrong, that he keeps making mistakes and it is more than just being tired. He has been giving orders and seeing the holes afterwards. Igwayne realises he has been under compulsion and proposes the Hall relieve him of command. Bryne suggests relinquishing command to one of his commanders, but Doesine says they may also be compromised. 

Igwayne realises there is only one man they can trust not to be under compulsion and tells them they will have to put the armies under the command of Matrim Cauthon.





Chapter 32. A Yellow Flower-Spider.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat surveys the battlefield through a horizontal gateway made by the Sharan damane Mat captured. He has rescued the Eyes Sedai from the trap Bryne lay but at a loss of many men. The Shawn'chin are now using the term Eyes Sedai instead of marath'damane under Mat's orders and Tuon has not countermanded it. Mat puts the camp on lockdown - no channeling - the Sharans are not cautious and may attack the camp in the night. Mat believes they should abandon this field and arranges for a meeting with Igwayne and the Sitters by gateway.

Min interprets the omens for Tuon; Lord Gokhan, who will marry, is sent to the front lines. A young female soldier has an image of a white boar and Tuon orders her execution, as this is the symbol of one of her rivals. Min argues that her viewings may be used to warn of future events and people may be watched but not killed until they are caught doing something. Tuon agrees.

A gateway opens with the Hall on the other side. Igwayne confirms Bryne was under Compulsion and Syreen confirms all four Great Captains were targeted and that two thirds of the Borderlanders were lost in battle as a result. Mat wants to make a unified stand and Elayne is contacted through another gateway to approve this plan. Her battle is won, thanks to the Asha'man. The Field of Merrilor is the site agreed upon for their last stand. 



Point of view: Galadedrid Dawmodred.


Galaad finds Trom's body on the battlefield outside Kai'rienne. He continues up a hill to Elayne who is telling her leaders of Mat's new plan and urging them to call the battle a victory, despite their huge losses.





Chapter 33. A Memory of Light/Chapter 33.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin is in Tel'aran'rhiod in the flesh, chasing after Slayer. They battle in the storm clouds lacing the World of Dreams. They are in the south, close to the Sea of Storms, far from Shay'ole Ghoul.

In attempts to lull and distract each other, they discuss the Dark One and his rewards, in addition to Slayer's predilection for hunting wolves. While Pairin is distracted, Slayer attacks, forcing him underwater. Pairin struggles to get free, finally freezing the water solid so he can shift to the shore. He is exhausted; he has been too long without sleep in the real world, as days have passed in the real world for the hours Pairin has experienced in Tel'aran'rhiod. One of Slayer's arrows pierces Pairin's shoulder. He shifts further away, injured. 



Point of view: Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra.


Faile waits in the city of Tar Vawlyn for supplies with fifty members of the Band and with Cha Faile. Secretly, she is to collect the Horn of Valere and deliver it to Mat. Laras brings Faile the Horn disguised as a chest of Two Rivers tabac and Faile's party move across the Jualdhe Bridge to the Traveling grounds outside the city. 

As Berisha prepares to open a gateway for the Field of Merrilor a bubble of evil strikes. Sharp black crystal spikes erupt from the earth. Berisha hurriedly opens a gateway and Faile's party flees through. Berisha is mortally injured but holds the weave long enough for Faile to follow. 

On the other side, Faile realises she is not at Merrilor; they are in the Blight. 



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha is in an Eye’eel tent in the valley of Thawkahndar. It is days since Rand has entered Shay'ole Ghoul, but Aviendha notes that Maidens guarding the path have worked four hours shifts on the mountain only to find when they descend that eight hours have passed, she wonders how much time has passed in the Pit. 

Melaine is close by; she is not fighting as she is close to giving birth. She, along with gai'shain help with the war effort by carrying water and helping to bring the injured to the Healing camp set up in Mayene. There is a lull in the fighting, the Shadow appears to be waiting for something.

Aviendha senses a woman channeling in the camp. Windfinders not working on holding the tempest at bay with the Bowl of the Winds make camp with the army. However, channeling is forbidden in camp for even smallest uses so Aviendha investigates. She finds the source of the channeling at Darlin's tent. Aviendha notices three Eye’eel men at the tent and believes them friends until they attack her. She notes they wear red veils and at least one can channel. Aviendha is captured but Cadsuane arrives and rescues Aviendha, having sensed the men channeling with her paralis-net. The two investigate the original source of channeling and find Hessalam, who attacks then flees. 

They both sense more channeling around the camp, more male channelers at the same time the Trollocs attack. Aviendha realises the Eye’eel men are those sent to the Blight on learning they can channel and explains this to Amys and Sorilea. Aviendha controls a circle and sets Flinn the task of watching for male channelers. Darlin and the army concentrate on the Trollocs while Aviendha and the channelers try to take out the Dreadlords. They don't need fancy tactics; they just need to hold the valley.



Characters:[]


Pairin Eyebarra
Slayer
Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra
Mandevwin
Chel Vanin
Sandip
Laras
Harnan
Setalle Anan
Aravine Carnel
Olver
Berisha Terakuni
Aviendha
Melaine
Cadsuane Melaidhrin
Hessalam
Amys
Sorilea
Damer Flinn
Darlin Sisnera


Referenced:[]


Dark One
Matrim Cauthon
Rand al'Thor


Places[]


Tel'aran'rhiod
Tar Vawlyn
The Blight
Thawkahndar


Referenced:[]


Field of Merrilor


Groups[]


Band of the Red Hand
Cha Faile
Eye’eel
Atha'an Miere (Windfinders)
Samma N'Sei


Items[]


Horn of Valere


The Prince's TabacA Memory of Light/Chapter 33














Chapter 34. Drifting.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand finds himself standing outside of time and the Pattern. He sees his interpretation of the Pattern and the emptiness around. He manages to anchor himself lightly in the Pattern to avoid being drawn into emptiness and to be able to perceive time. 

He realizes this will be far more than a simple sword fight, as Moridin had led him to believe. The Dark One, addressing Rand as Adversary, agrees saying that Moridin was of him, but his eyes were too small. Lews Therin had no experience with the Dark one talking to him; Rand considers this a good sign. The Dark One brings his force against Rand. The real battle starts.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Slayer's arrow had impaled Pairin from shoulder to back. Weak and confused, he has shifted to an unfamiliar location with strange trees around him. He is even too weak to imagine the arrow out of his shoulder. He contacts nearby wolves, but they're completely unfamiliar with Wolfbrothers and shove him out of their minds. Cyndane arrives and looks down at Pairin in disappointment. He begs her for help. But, realizing Pairin is not the strong ally she hoped for, she vanishes.

In a daze, he shifts to the Field of Merrilor hoping to find Faile. Once there, he realizes she can't be there since he's in the wolf dream. He recalls the portal Rand had ordered to be made in Merrilor, if only he could last. Pairin collapses and begins drifting into nothingness thinking, "At least... at least I was there for Rand."



Point of view: Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra.


Some hundred Band guards, Cha Faile, and caravan workers finally make camp for the night. Faile gathers Mandevwin, Aravine, Harnan, Setalle, and Arrela to discuss why Berisha sent them into the Blight and where they are located. Was it the trap of a Darkfriend or merely a mistake during the chaos of the bubble of evil? Faile thinks Berisha's wound was intentionally from a knife instead of accidentally from a spike. She asks Setalle whether an Eyes Sedai could trace them. Setalle explains tracing is possible by reading a weave's residue, but residues only last a few days and reading them is a rare talent. Faile suspects Setalle is a former Eyes Sedai due to the unusual knowledge and authority she projects. 

They decide to wait one day for rescue before traveling onwards. A months-long escape southwards isn't realistic, given that two caravan workers have already died from the Blight's common dangers in only one day. Setalle reluctantly suggests traveling east towards the peak of Shay'ole Ghoul. Surrounding Shay'ole Ghoul are the Blasted Lands, which even the Blight avoids. With the Shadow's armies preoccupied with Rand, Faile and her caravan might be able to reach his armies and travel via gateway to the Field of Merrilor. Faile suspects a Darkfriend killed Berisha and still hides among her group. 

Privately, Faile asks Setalle how many years it's been. Setalle finally admits it's been decades since she was in the White Tower. Unfortunately, she's been unable to channel in over 25 years so gateways are impossible and walks away. Faile wonders if Setalle is the Darkfriend and plotting to deliver the Horn of Valere right into the Dark One's hands. 



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha and the others fought the Shadow throughout the night, including a surprising number of red-veils. They were not truly Eye’eel since they ignored ji'e'toh. She recognizes one red-veil corpse as Soro. He was kind to a young Aviendha and, as per Eye’eel custom, left to "spit in Sightblinder's eye". 

To avoid exhausting the channelers, Aviendha had setup a system of rotating circle members. Currently, she held the turtle brooch angreal in a circle with Flinn, Sarene, Kiruna, and Faeldrin. Their circle heads towards fire flashing along the side of the valley, until Aviendha raises a hand. She sneaks onwards alone and Delves each corpse to ensure no one is playing dead. Eye’eel and red-veils continuously rove the valley trying to best each other. A group of siswai'aman rush against two red-veil channelers, but are hurled back by a blast of Earth. Aviendha quickly strikes back with weaves of Fire and Earth, killing them. 

Despite her lack of skill in Healing, she saves one siswai'aman from bleeding out from a throat wound when a shock goes through her. One of her wells of power vanishes from the circle. She immediately releases the circle and dashes back only to find the smoldering corpses of Kiruna and Faeldrin. Hessalam smiles with Sarene under Compulsion while her warder lies at her feet. They vanish by twisting in upon themselves, again Traveling without a gateway. Flinn has survived but his left arm has been burned away. Aviendha tries to Heal him, but he slips into unconsciousness.





Chapter 35. A Practiced Grin.






Point of view: Olver.


Olver is annoyed that Behla is too slow. Faile's people trudge onward with a heavy sense of dread when a curious caravan driver is snapped up by the vines of carnivorous tree. Everyone is horrified and Faile nervously reminds them to stay away from any plants. Sandip mutters hopelessly that it's the fifteenth dead in just a few days. Only yesterday morning, five were killed by three-eyed grolm.  Olver bemoans the suffering, abandonment, and death of so many people he misses like his parents, Noalle, Mat, and Tahlmahness. Again, he resolves to become strong to enact revenge against the Shaido who killed his father. 

They had abandoned the wagons as they climbed the foothills towards the Blasted Lands. Faile had Mat's chest of tabac tied to her horse, but said it was just a convenient place to stow some of her things. She speaks with Vanin and Aravine of the growing dangers as they inch closer to the Blasted Lands and Shay'ole Ghoul. Vanin thinks everywhere will be empty except just around Shay'ole Ghoul when they come across recent wagons tracks. Despite the growing cold, Vanin sweats and suggests they stay holed up someplace nearby. Faile disagrees and pushes them onwards to Shay'ole Ghoul. 



Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin.


Cadsuane reflects upon how deep and sophisticated the Shadow's infiltration of the White Tower must have been and resolves to make the most out of the Eye’eel. Although she thinks them untrained, she also finds them useful and gritty, with Aviendha being exceptional. She explains to Aviendha that no channeling was felt because the True Power was used by the woman who escaped with Sarene. Since Sarene seemed compulsed, Cadsuane suspected it was Graendal. Sorilea argues that Graendal is never mentioned to be so ugly, but agrees it could be a disguise. Aviendha still feels guilty for the deaths of Kiruna and Faeldrin. They agree to contact Sorilea, Aviendha, Cadsuane, and Amys if they even suspect Graendal's presence.



Point of view: Zarine ni Bashere t'Eyebarra.


Faile's party is close to Thawkahndar and they have not lost another since drawing close to the border of the Blasted Lands. However, two nights before, Faile is called away from her tent and when she returns the Horn's chest has been moved slightly. The chest was still locked and the Horn still inside. 

Faile sets a trap to try to catch the traitor in her tent but hides the Horn nearby. A scream pierces the night coming from the area the Horn is hidden. Faile finds Harnan battling some furry beast while Vanin holds the Horn. Faile shouts that he is a thief and Vanin tosses the Horn and runs, grabbing Harnan on the way. The beast kills a member of Cha Faile and another one appears, drawn by its cries. Arrela battles the first while Mandevwin orders Verdin and Laandon to attack with spears. One beast kills Mandevwin's horse, knocking him to the ground. Aravine appears and Faile orders everyone to ride away as she can hear the cries of more of the beasts. 

Faile does not have time to chase Vanin or Harnan if they are to outpace the beasts into the Blasted Lands.





Chapter 36. Unchangeable Things.






Point of view: El'Nine'eev ti al'Meera Mandragoran.


Nine'eev holds onto the rocks in the Pit of Doom as she watches Rand and Moridin who appear frozen. She fears being pulled into the nothingness. Mworane is similarly holding onto a nearby rock. 

Nine'eev moves from stone to stone and finds Alanna chained to the wall, crying. She has been stabbed in the gut. As Rand is in control of the circle, Nine'eev cannot Heal her and she fears if Alanna dies then Rand, as her Warder, will go mad with rage. Nine'eev takes out her herbs and uses clothing to make a bandage but fears she cannot save Alanna without the Power. 



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat shows his fresh troops how to make stakes for the palisade. He recognises Almen Bunt watching him. Urien comes up to warn Mat that the Deathwatch Guards are coming. Mat leaves Cynd to keep the troops erecting the palisade in line. 

He passes some new Tower Guard recruits and, taking a quarterstaff from a fellow named Sigmont, shows them how to grip and block with it. He sees the Deathwatch Guards coming his way and ducks around a tent into the path of some Eyes Sedai, including Igwayne. 

Igwayne sends the other Eyes Sedai away and walks with Mat, Gawyn and Lie’winn, believing Mat is running from Tuon, but really he is avoiding passing judgement on a trial. Mat asks Igwayne if they have found the Horn yet, which they, of course, have not. Mat asks Igwayne to make him a gateway to the top of the Dashar Knob where he surveys the terrain. Mat's memories tell him of similar battles fought.

Grady approaches to tell Mat he has fetched the soldiers, one hundred of the Band led by Delarn, and their five hundred recruits from a village. Mat instructs them to go up the River Mora and block it. Grady is to deal with the channelers while the others defend the river. 

The Deathwatch Guards finally catch up with Mat as Gelen comes through a gateway. 

At this moment Mat feels it; the enemy have arrived.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin lies in Tel'aran'rhiod close to death. Pairin realises his only choice is to awaken from the Dream, even though he is there in the flesh. He knows it is possible as he has seen Slayer use this method before. 

Exerting all of his willpower and remaining strength he manages to make it work and lands on the battlefield at the Field of Merrilor. Master Luhhan sees him and carries him off for Healing.





Chapter 37. The Last Battle.








Act I: Cauthon's Gambit[]


Point of view: LAN Mandragoran.


Setting: River Mora, Hawal Ford

LAN and Andere ride to the River Mora where they are to lead the cavalry as the frontline against the trollocs and Sharans. They see Logain there, with a group of Asha'man and Eyes Sedai. They cross at Hawal Ford and attack the Sharans riding between bogs and Polov Heights.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Setting: Dashar Knob

Elayne hears Draghkar in the Shawn'chin camp at the base of Dashar Knob and starts riding towards the noise. Birgitte alerts her and she weaves a thunderclap, deafening those around here and rendering the Draghkar's call useless. They ride into the camp and see over a hundred of the Draghkhar. Elayne has Birgitte to tell one of the sul'dam to Heal. 

She enters the command building, where Mat tells her he had been expecting her. He explains that if he had revealed the true battle plan, it would have got back to the enemy. She asks what the real plan is, and he doesn't tell her. She realises that he can't say anything as it might be overheard.



Point of view: Uno Nomesta.


Setting: Polov Heights

On the Heights, Uno watches the battle begin to unfold, with Tahlmahness and Aludra ordering the dragons. A raken drops a message telling him to retreat down the southwestern slope. Uno doubts the order, but follows it anyway. They begin to retreat when they come under attack from the Sharans. Lightning rains down on them overwhelming the Eyes Sedai and Asha'man defenders. An immense gateway opens behind them and they see Demandred, who weaves balefire killing Kwamesa, then Einar. Uno realises the wisdom of the order to retreat and organises his men.



Point of view: Logain Ablar.


Setting: River Mora

Logain stands by the Mora, he releases the power from what had been a thirty nine person circle and tells the Asha'man and Eyes Sedai with him that they are going to try and find the Seals that Taim has stolen. He tells them to kill any male channelers they encounter and most go, leaving just Gabrelle, Karldin and Arel. 

He tells Gabrelle that he has released the bond to Toevienne, who has been turned, and that he will kill her if he gets the chance. He is shocked when he feels envy through the bond to Gabrelle and thnks on how she had being trying to manipulate him. He links with those remaining, drawing through the angreal that Rand had given him and tells them he means to be the one to kill Taim.



Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Setting: Field of Merrilor

Gawyn watches the battle through a gateway created by Yukiri. Bryne suggests that Mat is trying to bait a trap. They see Demandred kill thousands of men, but there is nothing they can do, as even if they had their own full circle, they couldn't match his power. 

Gawyn thinks that he had promised himself he would stand in Igwayne's shadow, but that didn't mean he had to stop doing important work. He takes out the rings he got from the bloodknifes and puts them on.



Point of view: Tam al'Thor.


Setting: River Mora

On the south bank of the Mora, Tam fires arrows at Trollocs that are trying to cross. Dannil tells him that Mat is sending infantry banners from the Legion of the Dragon to try and ensure that Tam's men are able to hold their positions. 

Tam says he will make sure Arganda and Galaad know to expect reinforcements.



Point of view: Pevara Tazanovni.


Setting: Hawal Ford

Pevara fights Trollocs at Hawal Ford. She tells Androl her location through their bond and he comes to her through a gateway. He has been fighting the Sharan army. They move along the southwestern base of the Heights, saving a group of soldiers on the way. They join Jonneth, Canler and Theodrin and move through another gateway. 

Pevara and Androl link and they continue to fight, Androl killing Trollocs and Myrddraal through creative use of gateways. Lightning strikes at them and Androl loses his gateway, but despite being linked, Pevara is able to weave her own gateway and they pass through to safety.



Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Setting: Command Post at Dashar Knob

Galaad complains about Mat's decisions, but Mat tells him to do as he is told and hold the river. He agrees. 

Elayne also complains, but Mat responds that they put him in charge so they should let him do his job. Elayne responds with the somewhat petty argument that they made him commander of the armies but that he isn't in charge. Mat is sipping kaf served by a cute freckled so'jhin. 

He sends the Ogier in as reinforcements at the ford and instructs LAN to swing round behind the second trolloc army at the ruins and hold position without engaging them. Mat sends orders to Tahlmahness. He uses his looking glass and sees that the Sharans have moved to intercept LAN, before LAN even receives his order and realizes there is a spy in the command tent. Tahlmahness sends a response that his forces cannot fight and that the dragons need repairing. There are five or six that are functional and more that can be repaired, but Mat decides to wait before deploying them as once he does, Demandred will strike immediately. 

He goes outside the command tent to talk to Elayne, who weaves a ward against eavesdropping. He tells her of the spy and that he plans to use it. He tells her that the battle is a little like cards, that you want your opponent to think they are winning and start betting too high, so that you can take advantage when the right hand comes along. He tells her that Demandred has sent a force to block the river, which will succeed before long and that they need a solid defense in place when they come over the river bed. Elayne says she will go. Mat goes back in the command tent thinking that Tahlmahness understood his signal and that Elayne is doing what he wanted, so now he just has to persuade Tuon.



Act II: The Shadow's Dragon[]


Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Setting: River Mora

Galaad leads the Whitecloak cavalry against the Trollocs. After the charge, he searches out small groups of isolated men and orders them to the ruins so they can be formed into new banners. He thinks he might have given Mat too little credit. He tells Golever that he doesn't expect the Trollocs to stop for the night and sees the river go dry. At that he realises he did give Mat too little credit. Golever hands him a letter from Mat instructing him to move to Hawal Ford and to wait for more orders once he sees Elayne's banner.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Setting: Outside the Pattern

The Dark One shows Rand a possible future in which the Blight has overun the world. He sees Tam, Jori and Dannil working on a tree stump. Insects swarm out of it and kill Jori. Dannil takes Rand to Nine'eev who then takes him to be turned. 

He learns that in this reality, Nine'eev, Igwayne, Cadsuane and Logain have all been turned and that Elayne, Aviendha and Min are endlessly tortured. He refuses the reality of the world and it shatters. He takes the threads of the Pattern and tells the Dark One he will show him what is going to happen.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Setting: Field of Merrilor

Igwayne sees tiny cracks in the rocks and Yukiri tells her they think they are a result of balefire. She looks at them in detail and sees they look into pure nothing. She weaves and heals them turning them into normal cracks, before noticing that Gawyn is missing. Bryne goes to look for him and she sends Sewan to Mat and Tuon. 

Igwayne goes through a gateway and speaks with Chubain who says at first he thought Mat was mad, but he is now able to see his reasoning for some of what he has done, but does not understand why Mat abandoned the Heights only to assault them again.



Point of view: Gawyn Trakand.


Setting: Polov Heights

Gawyn walks through the battlesite. He kills a Trolloc that is carrying the body of Symon and immediately regrets it as he could have been spotted. 

He sees where Demandred is, and runs after him with the cover of the rings, thinking that someone had to kill Demandred and that Igwayne and Logain can't be risked, but he can. He sees Demandred and plans to sneak up on him, pull him off his horse and kill him but Demandred senses him and turns round, aiming balefire at Gawyn, which misses. 

He strikes Demandred's horse and prepares to kill him after he is thrown off. A blast of air saves Demandred and the two begin to fight, Demandred waving off the Sharans. Gawyn does well at first, with the edge the rings gives him, but despite the extra speed, is unable to land a hit on Demandred. Demandred channels to throw a rock at Gawyn, hitting him, before telling Gawyn that he is the saviour and that Rand is mad, as the Great Lord cannot be defeated. He says he will protect the world by destroying it and sheltering its people. 

He also tells Gawyn that he believes that Mat is actually Lews Therin as no mortal general would have the skill Mat has shown. He tells Gawyn that his weakness is that he wields the sword, rather than becoming it. 

He stabs Gawyn in the stomach and tells Gawyn that if he survives, he should tell Lews Therin that Demandred is looking forward to a match between the two and has improved since they last met. 

Demandred leaves him to bleed out. Gawyn pulls himself onto a horse and rides off.



Point of view: Faile t'Eyebarra.


Setting: The Blight

Mandevwin insists that Vanin and Harnan are not Darkfriends. Faile assumes he must be wrong. She looks up at Thawkahndar and thinks she will get the Horn to Shay'ole Ghoul. Selande and Arrela arrive from scouting and tell her they have seen a caravan.

They see a village in the foothills of Thawkahndar and that there is a central supply station not far from it. A gateway opens and men trudge through with carts. Faile and Mandevwin think that sneaking through the gateway might be their best option. They see a group of Samma N'Sei and realise they won't be able to sneak past them so retreat to plan their next move.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Setting: Mayene

Pairin wakes in Berelain's palace. She tells him she has taken precautions to prevent the problems that occurred last time he spent the night in her tent. He learns that the armies now fight at the Field of Merrilor and that Faile vanished in a Bubble of Evil. He asks Janina if she can wash away his tiredness, but she says even if she knew how she wouldn't as he needs rest. 

He reluctantly falls asleep, and considers the possibilities of the Wolf Dream, the Wolf Dream in the flesh and true sleep. He comes to the conclusion he needs true sleep or he will die.



Point of view: Androl Genhald.


Setting: Away from the Field of Merrilor

The group rest and Heal their injuries while planning their next move. Androl thinks he is falling in love with Pevara, and is amused as he had thought love a thing for the young. 

He tells her that if they are going to get the Seals from Taim, they will have to use stealth.



Point of view: Rhuarc.


Setting: Thawkahndar

Rhuarc stalks through Thawkahndar hunting Shadowspawn and Samma N'Sei, who he thinks of as the Honorless. He and his companions come across a group that are unable to channel fighting Eye’eel. They slay them, but Trask is killed. He sneaks up on one of the red veiled men who is able to channel and kills him. He thinks that the Eyes Sedai and Asha'man are tiring. 

Hessalam appears and uses compulsion on him, turning him into her adoring slave.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Setting: A Possible Future

Rand walks through a large city in what was the Two Rivers in a world he has constructed. The city is ruled by Pairin and Faile's grandchildren. There is a monument for all who died in the Last Battle. The Dark One tells him he has not eliminated suffering and that his vision is flawed. The Dark One attacks and the world becomes just a possibility.



Point of view: Silviana Brehon.


Setting: Polov Heights Corridor

Silviana attacks the Sharans with fire. The Tower forces have split in two, the infantry attacking on the heights and the other half, the cavalry, to the corridor between the bogs and the heights to attack the rear flank of Trollocs attacking the first group. 

She sees Igwayne go pale and thinks she is under attack, but Igwayne tells her that Gawyn has been injured. Igwayne wants to go after him, but Silviana says it is too dangerous and suggests that Igwayne pass the bond to her. 

Igwayne refuses.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Setting: River Mora

Elayne looks across the riverbed to the Heights, where a large number of Sharans have gathered. Birgitte tells her she now only has memories of her current life. 

Galaad asks her why Mat wanted him there, but she has no idea. A messenger arrives with a note from Mat. It has a note telling him to do what must be done along with a copy of his medallion that Elayne made. They don't understand, so Galaad turns the page over, and sees further instructions that he is to go and kill as many Sharan channelers as he can. 

Bryne also arrives, to tell her that Gawyn had been that way and that no one knows where he is.



Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Setting: Command Post at Dashar Knob

Mat looks out on the battle, with the Trollocs crossing the riverbed, under fire from Tam's men. He hopes Tam can hold long enough for LAN and the Borderlanders to strike the rear flank. 

Logain enters and Mat tells him he needs the Asha'man to help the Eyes Sedai. Logain tells him it is not his war, but Mat replies it is everyone's war. He says he and his men should be at Shay'ole Ghoul, but Mat realises he doesn't really mean this. Logain tells him that none of them are able to face Demandred and Mat realises Logain wants to. Mat knows that he has to do something about Demandred, and that even though Logain stands little chance, he may be a distraction at least, so gives him permission. 

He suggests to Tuon that they move her to safety, but she says she can protect herself, choosing the matter as something to fight over so that Mat can fake a split with the Shawn'chin. Two guards enter and Mat notices that there is a gray man with them. He sees him pull out a knife as Mika shouts that there is channeling nearby.



Point of view: Min Farshaw.


Min throws herself at Fortuona, tipping over her chair as Ayyad and other Sharans come though a hole they create in the wall. She sees Tuon abandon her costume for sleek silken trousers and shirt and run to Mat. 

Min steps through the hole and runs round the building, encountering a male Ayyad, who catches a knife she throws at him, before being killed by Sewan stopping his heart. She tells Sewan that Sewan was supposed to stay near Bryne, if she wanted to live. Sewan says she did that already and they saved each other's lives. Min tells her the danger still exists. Sewan tells her it is more important to save Mat, even if it costs both their lives. They see Mat fighting three gray men, and one surviving damane who won't do anything as her sul'dam is dead. 

Min sees one of the gray men has left Mat and is about to kill Tuon. She saves her as Sewan helps Mat.

With the command post on fire, they must flee. She sees Sewan dead, regretfully, gets outside with Mat and Tuon.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Setting: Polov Heights Corridor

Igwayne instructs the Eyes Sedai with her to try and stop the Sharans' weaves while she attacks, intending to fight her way through them to Gawyn. 



Point of view: Demandred.


Setting: Polov Heights

Demandred watches the battle through the eyes of a falcon as ravens are shot down by the Borderlanders. He thinks it should give him an unsurmountable advantage, but the gateways that look down on the battle even things out. He considers Traveling to the command post at Dashar Knob but is concerned it might be a trap. 

He wonders why the resistance encountered when diverting the river was a small unit of soldiers and townspeople. 

He looks to his side and sees Shendla, with three other women and thinks that his affection for her is almost enough to change his heart. Galbrait, the leader of the Ayyad tells him she failed and that Mat escaped, but he says she wasn't supposed to kill him because he is beyond her skill. It is enough that she disrupted his command post. 

Demandred still suspects that Mat is Lews Therin in disguise, but feels he can't prove it. He thinks that to truly master battle tactics takes centuries. He admits to himself that in general, Lews Therin was more accomplished than he was, but that Demandred was the better general. He thinks that if Cauthon really is Lews Therin, he is a better general than he was in the Age of Legends. 

He wonders when Mat will commit the damane and if he can widen the fracture between them and the Eyes Sedai. The three Ayyad leave and he asks Shendla if she is worried, fighting alongside Trollocs and Halfmen despite not having given herself to the Shadow. She tells him she doesn't see his actions as evil, as he will remake the world and preserve her people. He briefly wonders what he will do once Lews Therin is dead and the world has been remade. 

M'Hael arives, through a True Power gateway. He mocks Demandred for losing the battle near the ruins Demandred shields him with a True Power shield and pulls energy out of him and the intense use of the True Power begins to unravel the Pattern. He tells Taim to keep away from him, from Lews Therin, and from the enemy general, but other than that he doesn't care what chaos he creates . He turns and weaves balefire from the True Power, destroying hundreds of the forces of the Light. He tells Taim to go and is amazed that he is able to Travel with the True Power.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Setting: Pit of Doom

Rand resists the “wind” and feels as if it took millennia. He watches the threads of the Pattern and realizes that when the Dark One touches the Pattern, he is somehow restricted by reality. However, it is the Dark One who owns the dead.  

The Dark One tells Rand he will win eventually and prepares to show him another possible future.



Point of view: Jeweleen Sandar.


Setting: Base of the Heights

Jeweleen wishes he was at home with Thera hunting criminals and thieves. He is no commander.

Alas, he leads his squad of pikemen against a Sharan troop.



Point of view: Pevara Tazanovni.


Setting: Polov Heights

Androl and Pevara, wearing inverted Mask of Mirrors walk through Darkfriends, Shadowspawn and Sharans. She is not pleased when he tells her she looks good in black. Androl is disguised as Nensen and Emarin as Kash. Pevara is disguised as Alviarin and Theodrin as Rianna, with Jonneth simply as a Darkfriend. 

Pevara wonders about some of the battle tactics and Androl is able to telepathically explain some of what is going on. An old man interrupts them and says he will take them to the Wyld. She thinks on how she had intended to take multiple Asha'man warders, but can't continue her train of thought as it is interrupted by Androl's jealousy. Androl is surprised when she tells him Emarin prefers men. 

They see Demandred, who tells them that if he sees any Dreadlords away from the fight against the White Tower forces, he will make them wish he had given them to the Trollocs. Androl thinks what they did was effective, as they know where to find Taim.



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Galaad is feeling that the Last Battle may be the end of the world as he hunts Sharan channelers. He sees three of them and approaches. One throws a ball of fire at him, which dissipates when it hits him, leaving him singed but unharmed. She looks at him in shock as he takes her head off with his sword. Golever comes to tell him that this is a great day and the Children should have done much more of it in the past. Alhanra tells him that he has found Gawyn, and Galaad goes to see him. They see him, lying between two rocks and Galaad assumes he is dead. 

Gawyn speaks and tells Galaad that he had failed. Galaad reassures him and tells him not to die and that he won't be left without a brother, but Gawyn tells him he has one. He tells him that Tigraine went to the Waste and gave birth to a son on Dragonmount. He asks Galaad not to hate Rand and dies. Galaad, with tears on his cheeks, tells Golever to take the wounded to safety and plans to fight Demandred and avenge his brother.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Setting: Polov Heights Corridor

Igwayne feels Gawyn die and, distraught, lashes out with the Power until Silviana makes her realize she is out of control. 

Someone weaves a gateway and she leaves the battlefield through it.



Act III: The Flame of Tar Vawlyn[]


Point of view: Tam al'Thor.


Setting: River Mora

Tam uses his last arrow, saving a Whitecloak. Downriver, the Legion of the Dragon is halting the Trollocs and his men are doing the same. He feels there is no reason to retreat, so tells the men to gather their weapons and leave the bows, for when they have more arrows, though he knows none will come. He splits the forces into two wedges, Tam leading one and Deoan leading the other. 

They attack. 



Point of view: Fortuona Athaem Devi Paendrag.


Setting: By Dashar Knob

Fortuona refuses damane Healing, though she thinks it a useful development. She realises that the Deathwatch Guards who allowed the assasins through will need punishment, as to deny it them would be to deny them their honour. She instructs Karede to go to the enemy and fight the marath'damane directly. She raises Min to the Blood. 

Tuon decides that it is time to misdirect the spy. She tells Mat that he holds the ultimate responsibility for the attack and is surprised to see Galgan frown, and that Mat has already converted him. She tells him that he is not serious enough and he laughs. Tuon is the only one to see an omen behind him, twin lines of smoke rising from the heights to signify a large gamble that will yield a large reward or a great cost. He tells Tuon he has had it with her and Shawn'chin ways and she tells him the Shawn'chin should never have joined the battle. 

She tells the Shawn'chin with her that other than the Deathwatch Guards, they are returning to Ebou Dar. She hopes the spy will simply see a young woman foolish enough to want to fight on her own and believe the ploy.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Setting: A World That Could Be

The Dark One takes Rand to a world that could exist. He is at first surprised as it doesn't have any of the decay and devastation of the previous world he was shown. When a street vendor, Renel, kills a street urchin with not even a second thought, and starts to look at Rand as though she would do the same to him, Rand begins to grow suspicious.

He goes to The Queen's Blessing, where he doesn't recognise the door guard, but Basel Gill is still the Innkeeper. Gill tries to rob him and seems amazed at the idea that there would be laws against theft, claiming if a man can't keep what is his, he doesn't deserve it. Rand realises that the Dark One took people's consciences. He tells Shai'tan that he will show him the world's opposite.



Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Setting: By Dashar Knob

Mat walks away from Tuon, a little concerned that she meant what she was saying. He asks Min to stay with her and watch. 

He sees Karede, who says he is going to the front line. Mat tells him that he is going there as well and the Deathwatch Guard are to come with him. Karede agrees, looking for death as punishment, as long as Mat does not call the Empress "Tuon" as that would be a bad omen.



Point of view: Tam al'Thor.


Setting: River Mora

Tam fights Trollocs. He is not as strong as he had been as a young man, but with age has come maturity and an understanding of the void. The Trollocs turn and break as the Borderlanders arrive, forcing them into a vise with the Legion of the Dragon. He has held his position. 

LAN rides over to tell him he had wondered if the man who gave Rand his sword had earned it, but that he now knows. He salutes Tam. 

LAN tells Tam that the battle is not done and that Demandred had sent a smaller force here to keep them from the battle at Hawal Ford. LAN leaves just before a gateway opens from Mayene, bringing refugees from Kaymlin who had insisted on being brought to the battle. Tam thinks that battle is not the place for them, but when he sees them retrieving arrows, he thinks they can be of use. Berelain asks after Galaad.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Setting: Hawal Ford

Birgitte tells Elayne that the command post at Dashar Knob has fallen and the Shawn'chin have retreated. Elayne says she will take charge until they hear from Mat. 

She realises that the Trollocs are slowly surrounding them and that their position is poor. They are attacked by Demandred who sends balefire at them and demands that Lews Therin come to him as he hunts a woman Lews' loves. Birgitte instructs Celebrain to raise a banner and ride in the opposite direction as a decoy. Elayne is not happy, as this is effectively a death sentence, but Birgitte makes her realise it is necessary.



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Setting: Polov Heights

Galaad rides towards Demandred. He kills a male channeler and calls out to Demandred, telling him that the Dragon Reborn's brother is here. He doesn't know what to make of this revelation. 

Demandred steps forward and Galaad thinks he looks like Rand as they have a similar sense to them. Demandred says he is displeased that Lews Therin is ignoring him and the two begin to fight.



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Setting: Pit of Doom

Unable to Heal, Nine'eev uses her herbs to help Alanna.



Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Setting: Hawal Ford

Mat encounters Bashere at the back of the Andoran lines. Bashere has become king of Saldaea, but has refused to be crowned. 

Elayne's forces are holding, but are in danger of being surrounded. Mat has the Band and the Andoran cavalry engaging the Trollocs to prevent them separating the lines of pikes in Elayne's forces. He sends Bashere to LAN, with instructions to engage the Trollocs trying to move round the Andoran right flank. 

Mat rides towards the Dragonsworn and sees Loial and other Ogier, including some of the Gardeners breaking a Trolloc Fist. He takes the Ogier and continues on to the Dragonsworn and talks with Tinna. He learns Teslyn is with the Dragonsworn. He asks her for a gateway to move as many of the troops as possible to the top of the Heights with the intention of seizing the northern slope and preventing Demandred from fully surrounding Elayne's armies.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Setting: Mayene

Igwayne wakes to hear Silviana and Rosil discussing her and realises she is in Mayene. Rosil tells her she should rest but she replies that she can't afford to. She tells Silviana that she wants Vora's Sa'angreal. Silviana hesitates, but Igwayne insists as Rosil reluctantly agrees. She says she will need another warder and chooses Lie’winn.



Point of view: Galaad Dawmodred.


Setting: Polov Heights

Demandred and Galaad fight in darkness lit by Sharan torches. He injures Demandred, impressing him. Galaad grabs him, but his muscle gives out from an earlier wound and he drops his sword. Demandred strikes, severing his right arm at the elbow. 

Demandred strikes again and all goes black.



Point of view: Androl Genhald.


Androl, disguised as Nensen, and his companions look for Taim on the Heights. He sees Mishraile and Taim, holding one of the Seals. Taim asks him what he is doing and Androl tells him Demandred's message, that he would kill any Dreadlord who is out of position. Taim places a Mask of Mirrors, thinking he is disguising Nensen as Androl and tells him to find and kill Logain. Androl stumbles, and as he gets up, steals Taim's pouch containing the Seals.



Point of view: Jerrard Arganda.


Demandred rants that Rand's brother lies dying and that he is the true saviour of the world. Arganda charges and hits a Trolloc, which back hands him as it dies. 

When he wakes, LAN tells him that a second army comprised of Dragonsworn accompanied by a banner of cavalry had attacked the left flank and broke the Sharans apart. A flash of light reveals the sheer number of Trollocs and Arganda thinks that each man would have to kill at least five of them.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Setting: Kaymlin, in a possible future

Rand weaves the threads of the Pattern into a possible world, feeling it resist as he does, creating a world without the Dark One. 

He walks into the palace in Kaymlin and passes windows, gateways to other places, showing a rebuilt Malkier, Tear and Roy'deonne, surrounded by chora fields. He sees a stone slab, in what was the Blasted Lands where his body had been buried after the Last Battle. 

He sees Elayne who wonders if her daughter had pranked her with the Mask of Mirrors. When she realises it is Rand, she says she will invite Aviendha who is playing with children in Roy'deonne. As she babbles on, Rand looks into her eyes and sees a shadow, similar to that in the eyes of someone who has been turned. He realises that the Dark One is not merely the source of evil, he is the manifestation of evil and that by removing him from existence, he has taken away the ability to do or be evil, condemning people to be insipid and vacuous. 

He realises the world he would create, a world without the Dark One, is horrible.



Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Setting: Polov Heights

Mat sits on a dead Trolloc. Demandred didn't take his bait at the Ford, having sent only Trollocs and not Sharans. Demandred is now trying to get behind Elayne's forces, but Mat is managing to hold him off. He is aware that the Ayyad are winning against the Eyes Sedai. He sees something attacking the Sharans and watches them flee across the Heights.



Point of view: Olver.


Setting: The Blasted Lands

Olver and Faile's group walk through the Blasted Lands. They had attacked a Shadow supply train, defeating a merchant and three Darkfriends. They free a string of captives, many of whom accompany them into the supply dump. 

On their way in, they are stopped and Aravine claims to be Ansai, Lifa's partner. They are allowed through. A plump woman in white weaves a gateway and Aravine waves them through it. 

On the other side, they see Dragonmount in the distance as the body of a member of the Band of the Red Hand falls down a slope behind them and into the fire. Aravine comes through and points at Faile. Arrella, Selande and Mandevwin are captured by air. Aravine apologises and tells them she is a Darkfriend who thought she could escape her vows, but that she intends to take the Horn to Demandred. 

Olver thinks on what Mat would do and launches himself at the woman in white, stabbing her in the lower back.



Point of view: Lee’ahnna Sharif.


Setting: Base of Polov Heights

Lee’ahnna and other Eyes Sedai fight the Sharans. They are attacked by male Ayyad and Doesine is killed. Lee’ahnna feels pride at the way the Eyes Sedai are holding out. 

She goes to Raechin who tells her she would like to know if there really is a way to make a man do as you wish. Lee’ahnna tells her she will share everything she knows if they survive. They see that the Sharans have replaced the troops who had drawn away earlier with what looks like villagers. Raechin is still able to call lightning on them. Manda Wan suggests pulling back to regroup at Dashar Knob but before they have the chance to, Igwayne walks through them and releases a dozen flows of fire, killing Sharan channelers. 



Point of view: Tahlmahness Delovinde.


Setting: Dragon's Den

Tahlmahness and some of the Band are in a cavern somewhere, with no exit, found by one of the Asha'man, trying to repair the dragons. He speaks with Dennel but decides it is too quiet, so starts singing Jak o' the Shadows to raise morale. 

He thinks they will take part in the battle even if they have to blast their way out.



Point of view: Faile t'Eyebarra.


Setting: Field of Merrilor

The bonds holding Faile vanish and Aravine jumps on a horse and flees. Faile gets on Behla and gives chase. Trollocs move to bar her way but one is killed by Harnan and Vanin and the other knocked out of her way, allowing Faile to pass. They explain that they were not trying to steal the Horn, but Mat's tabac. They had allowed themselves to be captured and were preparing to free the captives and escape. 

They break off and intercept other riders and Faile continues after Aravine. She throws a knife, hitting her in the back and reclaiming the Horn. With Behla nearing exhaustion, she considers swapping horses, but as she is doing so hears Olver and hands him the Horn, asking him to take it to Mat whilse she distracts the Trollocs.



Point of view: Logain Ablar.


Setting: Bogs by Polov Heights

Logain asks why Taim didn't break the Seals, but no one knows. He wonders if he will ever have vengeance, but thinks vengeance seems empty. His Asha'man are in a small camp, below the bogs. He takes off his dragon pin and raises Androl to full Asha'man. Pevara tells him he should take the Seals to the Eyes Sedai as they belong to the White Tower, but he replies that the Amyrlin is as good as dead and he is a fitting steward. 

He tells them he is going to find Demandred and the others are to deal with Taim's men and the Sharan channelers, apart from Gabrelle who is to wait for him. He thinks that if he can get Demandred's sa'angreal, the world would tremble for him and the Black Tower.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Setting: Polov Heights

Igwayne leads an attack on the Sharans seeking out Taim. Narishma gives a warning and she sends everyone away, apart from him, Merise and Lie’winn. 



Point of view: Ila.


Setting: Field of Merrilor

Ila scours the battlefield, searching for survivors. Raen tells her that in the future he will not think so poorly of those who don't follow the Way of the Leaf, which frustrates her.

She sees a man looting the bodies and wonders who is worse - those that fight, or those that avoid it to exploit the dead and injured.



Point of view: Olver.


Setting: Field of Merrilor

Olver rides Behla, but a Trolloc arrow hits and kills her. 

He sees a crack in a rocky outcrop and is able to squeeze himself into it.



Point of view: Logain Ablar.


Setting: Polov Heights

Logain hurls himself through a gateway and strikes at Demandred, weaving fire, but the Sharans throw themselves in the way, giving Demandred time to defend himself. Logain sees that the Andoran pike formations are close to failing after which it will be a rout. 

He and Demandred fight with the Power, Demandred weaving a Deathgate that leaves a trail of lava, some of which splashes Logain. Logain weaves lightning at him, but Demandred creates a weave which dissipates it harmlessly and shields Logain. He begins to weave balefire and Logain throws a rock at him, striking him and causing him to drop the shield. Logain quickly prepares a shield and a gateway, and, as Demandred destroys the shield, he goes through the gateway, and back to be Healed by Gabrelle. 



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Setting: Polov Heights

Igwayne fights Taim and comes close to shielding him, but he balefires the shield and Travels away using the True Power. 

She launches herself at the Sharans. 



Point of view: Hurin.


Hurin fights on Polov Heights, trying to prevent the Trollocs from taking it. The rest of the army is trying to push the Sharans into the Trollocs fighting Elaynes forces, but Mat's army is beginning to flounder.



Point of view: Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron.


Setting: Mayene

Berelain organises the Healing and talks with Ronja about the possibility of gai'shain fighting. Kitan comes and takes her to Galaad. 

Annoura tells her she found him while Demandred was distracted fighting Logain and brought him back, but that she burned herself out in the process.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Setting: Outside the Pattern

Rand can see people fight and die for him, Hurin, Davram Bashere and his wife, Karldin Manfor and Beldeine, Gareth Bryne and Sewan Sawnchay amongst them. He refuses to give in and the Dark One prepares his final vision of the future. Everything gets dark. 



Point of view: Mazrim Taim.


Setting: Polov Heights

On the Heights, Taim can see the Trollocs control the corridor between the Heights and the bogs to the south, while the Sharan army fights on the Heights. He thinks the key to the battle is to destroy the Eyes Sedai. 

Demandred arrives and asks him how it is he failed and he tells him that Igwayne had a sa'angreal. Demandred gives him Sakarnen, saying he won't need it if Lews Therin comes as their strengths must be matched if he is to show himself the better. Taim thinks him insane, far worse than when they first met. As he leaves, Demandred tells him that Sakarnen is bonded to him and if Taim tries to use it against him it will destroy Taim. He tells Taim to use balefire against the Amyrlin.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Setting: Hawal Ford

Elayne has retreated to the ruins. A group of mercenaries, disguised as refugees attack her guards. She channels at one and the weave dissipates. She realises the man holds one of her foxhead medallions as Hanlon grabs her and presses it to her skin. 

His comrades bring Birgitte and he kills her by beheading her. Another comes in with a dead body, dressed to look like Elayne. Hanlon says that the Dark One wants Elayne's babies, but doesn't need her. His companion says he can cut them out and keep them alive with a weave the Chosen taught him, and to send them to Shay'ole Ghoul.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Setting: A Possible World

The Dark One shows Rand the final possibility - oblivion. Under these circumstances, it seems an attractive and fair offer, but Rand finally refuses. He has already  refused the same thing on the top of Dragonmount during his reforging.



Point of view: Min Farshaw.


Setting: Unknown

Min does not know her location. Galgan says that Mat has requested that the Shawn'chin return, but Yulan argues that Mat has proven himself reckless and he doesn't have confidence in him. Beslan and Galgan disagree. Tylee also says she thinks they should return. Yulan changes tack and says Mat fought well but is overmatched. Min sees a chain above Yulan's head and realises he is being used as a spy under compulsion. 

She looks around to see if she can see who is controlling him and sees that one of the so'jhin has images around her. She is suspicious, but not enough to condemn the woman so announces there is a spy for the Shadow. The so'jhin looks up and Min is sure. She announces it is Yulan and when she sees the relief of the so'jhin's face throws a knife at her, which is held in air. The woman flees through a gateway. Tuon tells Galgan to gather his troops as they are returning to Merrilor.



Point of view: Igwayne al'Veer.


Setting: Polov Heights

As she fights, Lie’winn comes to tell Igwayne that Logain has the Seals. Taim's balefire kills half a dozen Eyes Sedai, undoing several hours of their lives and restoring many Sharans. Igwayne considers responding with balefire of her own, but realises it could make things worse. Lie’winn tells her they must leave as they are being overrun. 

Igwayne thinks on Pairin's words that balefire is just a weave and creates her own weave, that she had tried earlier on the cracks, but much stronger, that she thinks of as the Flame of Tar Vawlyn. She releases it against the balefire, overcoming it and shooting up Taim's arm, causing him to crystalise from the inside. She realises that if she releases the Power she will be burned out. 

She tells Lie’winn to break the Seals at the moment the Light shines, releases the bond and pushes her through a gateway. Surrounded by hundreds of Sharan channelers, she draws in more power and releases her new weave, killing them and sealing the cracks Taim created.



Act IV: The Last King of Malkier[]


Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Setting: Outside the Pattern

Rand sees Igwayne die and adds her to his list.



Point of view: Lee’ahnna Sharif.


Setting: Polov Heights

Lee’ahnna sees Sharans crystalise. At the top of a fifty foot high column of crystal, she sees Vora's sa'angreal and realises the Amyrlin has fallen.



Point of view: Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron.


Setting: Mayene

Galaad briefly wakes to tell Berelain to take the Medallion back to Mat.



Point of view: Mat Cauthon.


Setting: Polov Heights

Arganda tells Mat that Igwayne and half the Eyes Sedai are dead, as are all the Sharan channelers, with the remaining Eyes Sedai too weak to channel. Mat has joined his surviving forces together, strung out across the Heights. They are defending on two fronts as the Trollocs have broken through on the east. Arganda tells him that Elayne, Davram and six Eye’eel Clan Chiefs are dead. 

Naeff and Neald arrive and tell him Tuon is waiting to return. He gives Naeff instructions for Tuon and tells Neald to go to Tahlmahness. 

He sees LAN riding towards Demandred.



Point of view: Olver.


Setting: Field of Merrilor

Trollocs try to get through to Olver. He huddles in on himself - terrified.



Point of view: Loial.


Setting: Polov Heights

Loial sees LAN burst from the ranks of soldiers Knowing and respecting LAN for what he is about to do, he chases after him, away from Erith. He tells her he is going to witness the fall of the last king of Malkier.



Point of view: Jerrard Arganda.


Arganda lines up his men for a charge that Tam expects to fail. Tam sees LAN riding to Demandred, his way blocked by Trollocs and orders his men to fire on them. 

He looses a burning arrow. 



Point of view: LAN Mandragoran.


LAN rides at the Trollocs wearing the Medallion he got from Berelain. Burning arrows rain down on them, creating an opening. He silently thanks Tam. 

He dismounts to save Mandarb and attacks Demandred, exchanging three blows and drawing blood. Demandred asks with surprise who he is and he replies:

"I am the man who will kill you."



Point of view: Min Farshaw.


Setting: Field of Merrilor

Min rides a torm through a gateway back to the Field of Merrilor.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Setting: Outside the Pattern

Rand sees LAN fight, Elayne captive, Rhuarc a slave to Graendal. He sees his friend Mat. He sees the pain, loss and fear in their faces. 

He thinks he has failed, but hears a voice at the back of his mind: 

"Let it go."



Point of view: LAN Mandragoran.


Setting: Polov Heights

LAN and Demandred fight; LAN avoiding rocks Demandred throws at him with the Power, but Demandred is the better swordsman. He doesn't believe anyone of the third age could have the skill that LAN shows and stops talking and using the Power to concentrate on the sword. Demandred tells him he can't win.

LAN Sheathes The Sword.

"I didn't come here to win. I came here to kill you."

And he does.





Chapter 38. The Place That Was Not.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand hears his father's voice telling him to let go. Then Igwayne's telling him that he must allow other people to sacrifice as well, echoing what Elayne said to him in her tent. 

He lets go of the guilt he feels due to not protecting them and the need to do so. He lets go of the list he had carried, that had once been the women who had died for him, but which had grown into all people who had. Ilyena was the last, and he feels as though a giant weight has been lifted from his shoulders. 

He stands up once more to face the Shadow.



Point of view: Shendla.


Shendla looks down to see that Demandred is dead. She announces the loss of their leader to the Sharan's. The battlefield seems to go still.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand looks outside of time and sees the Dark One not as a being, but a force as wide as the universe. He feels more attacks coming from the Dark One, but shrugs them off, telling himself that if those fighting won't give in, he won't either. 

He seeks the void and tells the Dark One that he doesn't control the world.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Loial returns to the northern end of the Heights to tell Mat that Demandred and LAN are dead. 

Mat leads the charge.





Chapter 39. Those Who Fight.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand tells the Dark One that it is not about him and it never was. Rather, it was about:



A woman that was cast down from her throne and made a puppet (Morgays)
A man that remembered stories (Thom)
A woman who had given her life and had it returned (Mworane)
A man whose family had been taken from him (Pairin)
A woman who refused to believe she could not Heal those harmed (Nine'eev)
A hero who insisted with every breath that he wasn't a hero (Mat/LAN)
A woman who shone with the Light for all to see (Igwayne)


He tells the Dark One that he can only win if he breaks the will of the people and that wont happen. As long as there are people in the world there is humanity.

The Dark One replies he can still kill and that all are his eventually - including the battle lord. 

Rand stretches out his palm, containing the world, and on the battlefield, two bodies on the ground.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat fights, killing Trollocs, thinking that this is their chance to break them while the Sharans are in disarray.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand hears the Dark One say he will take the Son of Battles as he took the King of Nothing's kingdom.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Arganda says they are being overwhelmed, that they need to step back, but Mat thinks he can do it. He just needs a favorable toss of the dice, something to give momentum.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand tells the Dark One that he was not watching closely enough and he was very wrong about one thing.



Point of view: Olver.


Olver - in his terrified desperation - blows the Horn of Valere.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat hears Rand in his head, telling Shai'tan he is wrong; that the one whom he has tried to kill, from whom he took everything, still fights. 

Point of view: LAN Mandragoran.

LAN stands up holding Demandred's head. 

The battlefield goes still and over the silence, the Horn of Valere is heard.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Hanlon tells Elayne she should have been more accommodating. She feels foolish for not listening to Birgitte that just because her babies will be fine, does not mean she will. 

White mist rises from the ground and Hanlon stiffens, a silvery arrow through his chest. A second shot takes him on the head and a third takes out the Dreadlord. She sees Birgitte standing over her corpse. She smiles and tells Elayne that the Heroes of the Horn have returned. 



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat fights through the Shadow's forces to LAN, grabbing him as he falls over. Narishma joins him and briefly Heals him, bringing him back to consciousness. Mat wonders which side blew the Horn and sees the Heroes. Artur Hawkwing steps to the front as Mat sees one of them ride off. 

Hawkwing tells Mat that they need the banner, but that they would not fight for the Shadow. Mat suggests that he can pull his men back and allow the heroes to fight, which amuses Hawkwing, as there are far too many, even for the Heroes of the Horn.



Point of view: Olver.


As Olver continues to blow the Horn, it is ripped from his hands, then he is pulled from his hiding place. He is dropped and looks up to see a figure fighting off a dozen Trollocs. He recognizes him as Noalle, though with the weariness gone. 

Noalle tells him that he did indeed die, but that the Pattern was not finished with him and tells Olver to sound the horn. Olver feels a great warmth, for one of the people he lost has come back to him.





Chapter 40. Wolfbrother.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


With Hanlon's death Elayne is able to move free and channel again. Her guard breaks through and between them and Birgitte, the rest of the Darkfriend mercenaries are defeated. Birgitte tells Elayne she is off to join the other heroes and Elayne should stay where she is. Elayne responds that her men believe her to be dead, and she needs to be seen to give them heart.



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha is alone now that Rafela has joined the Dragonsworn's last stand at the cavern. Elyas runs past her with a large pack of wolves to attack scores of Darkhounds.

She sees Hessalam ahead of her with a group of Eyes Sedai and Wise Ones she has captured, and sends a signal in the air to Amys and Cadsuane. Hessalam senses it and tries to shield her, but Aviendha draws in saidar through the turtle angreal and is able to withstand her. Hessalam attacks and Aviendha is forced to run, until Cadsuane and Amys arrived.



Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Despite being untrained with the weapon, Elayne swings her sword at a Trolloc, encouraging surviving Andorans to gather around her.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat, with his surviving forces, tries to push the enemy off the Heights. Gateways open in the air and the Shawn'chin pour through. He intends half the Shawn'chin to join Elayne and the other half to hit the Trollocs from the rear in the corridor between the Heights and the bogs. 

He hears thunder and realises that Tahlmahness and Aludra have mended the dragons and are now firing on the Sharans. 

There is just one more piece to fall into place.



Point of view: Jewr Grady.


Grady watches a canyon, ten or so miles to the northeast along the Mora. He is angry with Mat for the way he sent villagers to fight at the river. His orders are to make a gateway at dawn to the same village. 

He opens it and is astounded to see the same villages and members of the Band that had been killed the previous day. They pass through and fall upon the three Dreadlords keeping watch, killing them and allowing Grady to destroy the dam and release the river.





Chapter 41. A Smile.






Point of view: Pevara Tazanovni.


Jonneth tells the group that Mat has the dragons working again. Pevara doesn't expect them to last long, as Taim's men will be able to find them easily. 

Logain says they are going to move west and orders every Asha'man, Soldier and Dedicated that don't have other orders to look for the golden scepter Taim was holding when Igwayne defeated him. Androl tells his group that they aren't going with Logain as they already have other orders: doing something about Taim's lackeys. Canler says he is too tired to be of much use and even Androl is struggling to open a small gateway. 

Pevara has an idea of how to do what they wish and Androl calls her a genius. She says Taim's men are probably trying to destroy the dragons and they are going to give them a surprise. 



Point of view: Moghedien.


Moghedien stands over Demandred's corpse and reaches for saidar, finding instead the True Power. She weaves the Mask of Mirrors to make herself look like Demandred and Travels to the back lines of the Sharans, where they are preparing to flee. She sees just three Ayyad, two women and a man. She thinks she understands battle well enough to take charge. 

An old man, a Sharan monk claims that Moghedien is not Demandred and she kills him. She is accepted and tells them to gather Trollocs and send them to the ruins to attack the refugees from Kaymlin. She asks why the Ayyad haven't removed the dragons and is told there are only a dozen left. The dragons go silent and she thinks Taim's men might have silenced them. 

A gateway opens and she looks into a dark cavern, with dragons pointing in her direction. Someone orders them to fire.



Point of view: Tahlmahness Delovinde.


Tahlmahness asks Neald to close the gateway and open another. The new one opens on Trollocs engaging against Whitecloaks. 

They fire and close the gateway. 

They reload and open another.





Chapter 42. Impossibilities.






Point of view: Aviendha.


The defenders of the valley are falling fast. Most have pulled back to the slopes of Shay'ole Ghoul, dealing with Darkhounds and Trollocs. 

The Windfinders have lost control of the storm and lightning crashes down, killing many on both sides of the fight.

Aviendha moves quick to avoid the balefire Hessalam is hurling at her. She finds some cover as the Forsaken is distracted by Cadsuane's team of channnelers. 

An odd mist rises and she sees what appears to be Trollocs attacking each other. With no time to ponder the cause, she runs from her previous position to a vantage point, hoping to catch Hesallam unaware. When she reaches her vantage point however, she finds herself standing on a rock that is supported by nothing. A bubble of evil has arisen. 

Her rock is hit with balefire causing her to dive for cover. Here she finds Amys. They agree to attack Hessalam at the same time, hoping the two of them plus Cadsuane's team will be enough to overpower her.

Aviendha agrees and as she runs to her position she realises plants are growing sporadically around the battlefield. The black and white clouds have clashed together to create the ancient symbol of the Eyes Sedai. "Under this sign shall he conquer". 

She reaches her position with a good view of Hessalam but must wait for Amys. As she does something moves slightly beside her. She spins putting a blast of Fire through their chest.

She looks down to see that it was Rhuarc.



Point of view: Atal Mishraile.


Mishraile wants to leave. He didn't agree to fight the Heroes of the Horn. Alviarin reminds him this is the Last Battle and he should have expected nothing less. He doesn't understand why M'Hael allowed her to bond Nensen, putting her in charge of their group. 

Across the battlefield, a flash of light and the sound of dragons. Alviarin orders them there. Mishraile tries to argue but backs down at her anger. Mishraile thinks he will have to kill her and Nensen for this.

They step out the gateway to where the dragons had been fired from. She orders them to find where exactly so Donalo can read the residue. Mishraile helps search, thinking he will also have to kill Donalo - after he helps him escape that is. He tries proposing the idea but looks up and sees a tall man with red-gold hair - the Dragon Reborn himself. 

The Dragon sees them as they see him and flees through a gateway. They get the others to follow as Donalo reads the residue. It opens and they see al'Thor against a tree stump, exhausted. He runs further away and they follow, all of a sudden losing the One Power. Mishraile realizes they've been led into a Stedding. He tries to run but Ogier hands grab him and his friends.



Point of view: Pevara Tazanovni.


The Ogier, those too ancient to fight, tell Pevara and Androl that the captives will be taken care of. A few decades of peace may help them calm down. 

They return to the Field of Merrilor where the refugees from Kaymlin had arrived. It was now filled with Trollocs slaughtering.



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha kneels over Rhuarc's body. She feels regret, then anger as she realizes Hessalam has done this to him. With Cadsuane, Amys, Talaan and Alivia attacking Hessalam, she barely sees Aviendha until she is close. Aviendha weaves a spear of fire and runs toward her, the sounds of Darkhounds taking down the defenders of the mountain urging her on. Hessalam begins to weave balefire but Aviendha stops her with Spirit before she can do so. 

She feels the earth tremble beneath her as Hessalam prepares a weave of Earth. The ground explodes beneath Aviendha as she leaps up, her skirt and skin being torn apart by rock. She grips the spear of light in two hands and brings it down into Hessalam as she landed.

In that moment, they both vanished.





Chapter 43. A Field of Glass.






Point of view: Logain Ablar.


Logain and Gabrelle search the battlefield for the sa'angreal Demandred gave to Taim. He thinks about his time gentled in the Tower, then his time subject to the M'Hael and his men. He wonders if, during their failed attempts to Turn him, they broke something inside of him. He will not be subject to anyone again with the sa'angreal; he will be stronger than any who try to subject him. 

The crystalline ground rumbled on the verge of collapse. He had to find the scepter before it collapses. 

A Shawn'chin woman approaches from behind, delivering the Ahmerlin’s last orders to him:

"You must deliver the Seals up to the White Tower to be broken. The sign is the coming of the light!" 

The woman leaves after he agrees and, through the bond, Gabrielle feels his intention to break that agreement. She tries to talk him out of it when an Asha'man tells him he's found the scepter. He tries to shatter the crystal to no avail. He is about to attempt balefire when Androl comes running, telling him about the Trollocs attacking the refugees. Logain doesn't listen.

"Please," Androl begs, "They're slaughtering children."



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat rides with the Heroes of the Horn. He holds a special place among them as he was a Hornsounder. During a lull in the fighting he asks Hend the Striker if he will become one of the Heroes. Hend replies that, whilst he has done more than enough to earn a place, he has not been chosen to be one of them. Mat says maybe he wasn't chosen because he doesnt want to be chosen. 

Mat sees Elayne is still alive, to his relief. He also sees the Shawn'chin heading in her direction to offer support. At that moment, the river starts flowing again breaking the Trolloc army into two parts, many being washed away with the surging water. 

He notices some of the Sharans have started to flee. The Trollocs saw this too and tried to flee themselves. Some were decimated by the combined forces of Elayne's army and the Shawn'chin. Some flee into the Bogs where they are brought down quickly by packs of lopar. Any left standing were dealt with by the corlm. Once the corlm backed out, Tahlmahness and Aludra fired dragons  the congregated Trollocs. 

With the battle at Merrilor over, Mat feels Rand tugging at him. Annoyed that he doesn't get a break, but knowing his friend needs him, he sets off to find a way to Shay'ole Ghoul. 

Before he goes, he introduces Hawkwing to Tuon.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand and the Dark One exchange blows. The Dark One's anger boils up and Rand sees why. The battle at the Field of Merrilor had been won, against all odds, by a gambler from the Two Rivers. Rand laughs at the Dark One's surprise. He knows there is only one thing left. 

"Bring me my death Shai'tan, for I bring yours!" 



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha and Hessalam land on a rocky ledge halfway up Shay'ole Ghoul. Hessalam stumbles back in pain. Aviendha tries to stand but her ruined feet can't take it. She opens a gateway and ties it off as she is shielded. Aviendha feels fear, knowing she can do nothing physically or with the Power. She hopes someone sees her gateway. 

She tries to pull her knife but is too weak to hold it. It slips from her trembling fingers.





Chapter 44. Two Craftsmen.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin wakes in Berelain's Palace. He finds Chiad in his room. She says she is pushing her honour to the very edge by talking to him. She informs him that the Battle of Merrilor is won but the Battle at Shay'ole Ghoul still rages. He tells her he must get back to work and she asks about Gaul. Pairin informs her he was fine when he left him, which has only been about an hour in the Wolf Dream. He is going to return to him now, but first he needs an Eyes Sedai to wash away his fatigue. 

While Chiad leaves to fetch one, Haral Luhhan comes into the room. He expresses how impressed he I saw with Pairin's Hammer. They reminisce about simpler times, working the forge back at Emmond's Field. Pairin thanks him for saving his life and says he was stupid to push himself that hard. Master Luhann tells him it's the Last Battle; if he's not pushing himself within an inch of death they'll lose. Pairin asks what happens if he goes an inch too far and Luhann tells him he would've died giving it everything he had, which is a lot better than failing because he held back.

Pairin, feeling inspired, is ready to go as soon as he is healed. Masuri enters to Heal him, but before she does Pairin needs to know why she was meeting with Mahsemma Dagar behind his back. She admits she thought havjng influence over the man who called himself the Prophet of the Lord Dragon could have been useful. She also admits this was foolish, and since meeting Pairin has changed. Pairin thanks her and she Heals him. 

Chiad says she is going to the Field of Merrilor to help with the wounded. Pairin reassures her he will find Gaul. 

He enters the Wolf Dream and sets out on his final hunt. 



Point of view: Thomdril Merrilin.


Thom sits on a rock by the entrance to the cavern, smoking his pipe and watching the world end. He muses to himself that this is the best seat in the world to enjoy the world's final performance. He starts to worry about Mworane before putting her out of his mind, knowing he can handle herself. 

He begins thinking about how he will tell this story if they survive it. Words like "momentous" and "epic" are too overused. He watches the Darkhounds ravage the valley, killing anyone they come across. Lightning crashes down everywhere, Eye’eel fighting Eye’eel, the Dragonsworn doing everything they can to make sure nobody makes it up the slopes of Shay'ole Ghoul. 

"Climactic" he likes, but feels it is too expected. 

He thinks back to Mworane, staring into the end of the world, feeling her grit and determination. He smiles at that thought. 

He looks to the clouds,  the ancient symbol of the Eyes Sedai. 

He thinks the word "perilous" would work, but that word doesnt do justice to all who fought and died. 

Below crossbows are fired as the Shadowspawn make it further up the slope. "Terrifying?" That was a right word, but not the right word. He was frightened, they all were, but that word was too common. 

He looked down at the battle again. Watching the Forces of the Light fighting valiantly against superior numbers, but never letting that slow them. Watching them watch their friends die, and fighting on in their name. Words like "terrifying", "climactic", and "perilous" would never describe the phenomenon he is witnessing here. People of all nations and creeds coming together to fight under one banner, in one name, for the good of the world itself. 

This... This was "Exquisite". That was the word. That was what the end should be. Exquisite. If the Light wins this battle, it will do so by the narrowest of margins and it will be exquisite. 

He drew on his pipe as a part of the valley below exploded. He thinks about how things would have turned out. How things would be if he never visited Emmond's Field. How things would be if his attempts to leave the three tahveeren hadn't failed. If he'd never fallen in love with Mworane. He looks around and sees the world ending and there is nowhere else he'd rather be. Besides, it wasn't like he wasn't saving the world in his own way.

Cadsuane walks by and nods to Thom, who nods back amicably. She took a step toward the cavern before falling down, Thom's knife in her back. As she died, the Mirror of Mists fades revealing Jeaine Caide. Thom thinks to himself that people always get the walk wrong. There is more than a face and a voice to impersonate someone. He put her with the other five bodies who had tried the same thing.

Returning to his seat, he began to write what could be his final song. 





Chapter 45. Tendrils of Mist.






Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat goes looking, Dragon Banner tucked under his arm, for Grady and finds him with Olver. Unexpectedly, but not surprisingly, he sees Noalle on a horse next to Olver. The two men exchange smiles and a nod before Mat compliments Grady on his work at the river. 

Mat asks him for a gateway to Shay'ole Ghoul but Grady says it can't happen. Not because he's tired, but because Shay'ole Ghoul seems to deflect gateways; it's hardly one place anymore and a gateway can't pinpoint it. The closest he can get him is a scouting camp a days hike from the battle. Mat feels Rand's urgency and knows that isn't long enough. Olver asks if he'll be needed with the Horn.

Then Mat remembers it's a Shawn'chin scout camp and asks Grady to send him there.



Point of view: Padan Fain.


Padan Fain, no longer serving the light or the Shadow, delights in watching his enemies kill each other. He calls himself Shaisam now, Fain being just a body he inhabits. Really, he is the mist that rolls along the battlefield. The Trollocs he has corrupted on his journey fight other Trollocs and the Forces of the Light and everyone the mist touches fights for his personal cause. 

However, the Trollocs are only a distraction, for both Padan Fain and Shaisam want Rand al'Thor, then this world will be theirs.



Point of view: Gaul.


Gaul clings to the rocks outside the Pit of Doom, a tempest of wind threatening to blow him away. Pieces of rock carried in that wind sliced his skin, but he hardly feels it. No worse than anything in the Three-Fold Land. He taunts the Dark One and the wind picks up. 

He sees movement near the entrance to the cavern. Slowly moving against the wind, spear in hand, he approaches. As he gets near, Slayer spins and knocks the spear aside. Slayer attacks, but Gaul evaded at the same time the wolves leap at his attacker. Gaul withdraws, whispering a farewell to the wolves who died for him. He may not be able to talk to them as Pairin Eyebarra can, but they are still spear-brothers. 

Slayer appears in front of the rock Gaul is behind. The man has sent decoys before, so Gaul is hesitant to attack. The wolves sniffed at him, and he started killing them. Gaul runs forward and Slayer hurls one of his own spears at him, taking him in the stomach. He falls to his knees. 

Slayer laughs as he knocks the remaining wolves away with ease. Slayer befind to taunt Gaul, calling out that he is a king here, more than one of the forsaken, more than the Dark One himself. As he prepares to kill Gaul, the winds die down. 

"You are not a king."

Gaul looks up and sees Pairin staring down Slayer. He tells the man Of the Shadow that this place belongs to the wolves. Gaul runs to cover as the two men clash.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat and Olver cling onto the back of a raken, and Mat's hat, as it soars through the air above Thawkahndar. The woman flying, Sulaan, asks if he's sure he wants to be put down in the valley. Taking a look around at the Battle below, Mat decides that's a bad idea. Sulaan agrees. 

As they fly around looking for another drop-off point, Mat notices the mist. He thinks he recognises it, then he feels it. A shiver down his spine, followed by whispering in his mind. Olver points out the Darkhounds. Sulaan swoops low to find a better point and an arrow takes her and the raken gets hit in the wing. Below, red-veiled Eye’eel prepare to fire again. 

Mat quickly undoes his straps and attempts to take control of the flying beast, telling Olver to hold on with everything he's got. He pulls the reins as hard as he can and the animal turns, narrowly avoiding a volley of arrows. The raken hits the ground in a heap, Mat and Olver not far behind. 

Mat realizes he lost the Dragon Banner somewhere in the flight. Olver tells him not worry, raising the horn to his lips, we're already beneath the banner. Mat follows Olver's eyes towards the clouds and the Horn is sounded.





Chapter 46. To Awaken.






Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand breaks free of his struggle with the Dark One and again faces Moridin, who throws a knife at Alanna.



Point of view: El'Nine'eev ti al'Meera Mandragoran.


Moridin's knife strikes Alanna, but due to Nine'eev's herbs she is awake enough to release her bond to Rand before she dies. Rand raises Callandor to strike down Moridin, but Moridin stabs his own hand with a knife, causing Rand to twitch and drop Callandor.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin fights Slayer and, for the first time since killing the Whitecloaks in the stedding years ago, fully lets go of his emotions. 

Slayer shifts into the real world, thinking he's escaped but Pairin follows him. They run through Eye’eel and Darkhounds until Slayer sees him and shifts back into Tel'aran'rhiod. 

He sees Pairin again and shifts back and forth, trying to get away. Pairin catches him and finally kills him. 

He sees a group of shadowspawn with pock-marked faces, but ignores them. The Darkhounds break through the Dragonsworn defenders. He takes a group of Eye’eel to the mouth of the Pit of Doom as a last defence, meeting the spirits of wolves called back to the world by the Horn of Valere. He leads them against the Darkhounds.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat meets up with Pairin as the mists of Mashadar creep toward the Pit of Doom. Pairin kills a Darkhound, which surprisingly remains dead. He warns Mat about them and asks about Faile's whereabouts. Mat isn't certain where she is now, but explains that she was last seen leading Trollocs away to protect Olver. Pairin remains hopeful that Faile is alive. Mat mentions Fain has arrived with Mashadar, and they both acknowledge their debts to settle with him.

While Mat speaks, a tendril of Mashadar's mist impales him from behind, knocking him off his horse.





Chapter 47. Watching the Flow Writhe.






Point of view: Aviendha.


Unable to stand, Aviendha tries to crawl towards her gateway as Hessalam tries to shield her. She realises she can't reach it and starts to unweave the gateway as Hessalam begins to weave compulsion. 

In her haste, Aviendha picks the wrong thread and the gateway explodes.



Point of view: Padan Fain.


Fain, thinking of himself as Shaisam, moves towards Rand. He stops, as some of the mist which is a part of him has stopped sensing. 

He comes across what he believes to be a familiar corpse, killed by the mists, but it reaches up and grabs him by the throat. 

Mat tells him he once heard that if you catch a disease and survive, you can't get it again. Fain drops the dagger. Mat grabs it and rams it through Fain's heart. Fain dies, his corpse melting away.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin leaves Mat and enters the Wolf Dream. He grabs Gaul and takes him to the Two Rivers camp at the Field of Merrilor. 

He leaves Gaul to be Healed and returns to Shay'ole Ghoul, as he knows Rand still needs him.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Moridin grabs Callandor and realises it is also a True Power sa'angreal and draws it through the sword. Rand tells him that to do so means death, but Moridin replied that he will have oblivion. 

Nine'eev and Mworane exploit the flaw in Callandor in the way that Min had worked out and take control of Moridin, before linking with Rand. 

With siedeen, saidar and the True Power, Rand seizes the Dark One through the Bore, using the protection of the True Power to prevent siedeen from being tainted again. The Dark One tries to turn off access to the True Power but there is too much of it and he is unable to do anything. 

Light explodes from Rand.





Chapter 48. A Brilliant Lance.






Point of view: Elayne Trakand.


Elayne feels Rand's strength, control and determination through the bond and realises the end has come. 

She sees a bright light shoot into the sky.



Point of view: Thomdril Merrilin.


From his rock, Thom sees a light shoot out of the cavern from within Shay'ole Ghoul.



Point of view: Elmindreda Farshaw.


Min sees the light from Shay'ole Ghoul burn away the clouds as she feels Rand's strength.



Point of view: Aviendha.


Aviendha, having survived the gateway explosion, sees the light and realises Rand is winning. 

Hessalam bows down before Aviendha and asks how she can serve, the compulsion she had been weaving when the unraveling gateway exploded having backfired on her, making her completely loyal to Aviendha.



Point of view: Logain Ablar.


After dealing with the Trollocs, Androl approaches and tells Logain that Polov Heights has been destroyed, meaning the Sakarnen is lost. He cannot wrap his head around why he gave up that type of power for people who will hate him - until he sees they are looking at him with awe, thanking and praising him and his Asha'man. One woman tells him she will have her son tested as soon as he is old enough to see if he has the talent. 

He feels the light from Shay'ole Ghoul and Gabrelle hands him the Seals, telling him it is time. 

He breaks them.





Chapter 49. Light and Shadow.






Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin stumbles through the wolf dream, where everything is dead. He sees Shay'ole Ghoul ahead and Dragonmount behind it, though the two should be too distant for that. 

He moves himself to the entrance to the Pit of Doom and goes in, where he sees Cyndane. They see Moridin holding Callandor next to Rand, Nine'eev and Mworane. Cyndane uses compulsion on Pairin and tells him to kill Mworane, while she kills Nine'eev. He feels it is wrong, but cannot help his hands rise. 

He tells himself it is the wolf dream, and here, his dreams become reality. He thinks on how he loves Faile and the compulsion vanishes. 

He reaches out to Cyndane and breaks her neck.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand pulls the Dark One into the Pattern and begins to kill him. Then he realises that the vision of the future in which the Dark One had been killed was true, and that he must allow the Dark One to exist. 

He draws siedeen, saidar and the True Power and weaves them together, in their pure forms, not as the individual five powers, and reforges the prison. 

This time, it will not re-open.



Point of view: Mworane Dawmodred.


Moiriane pulls Nine'eev out of the Pit of Doom, unable to see because of the blinding light. 

She sees the blackness in front of Rand shrink away until it vanishes.





Chapter 50. To See the Answer.








Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand al'Thor, dying, slips on his blood, he is carrying Moridin's body. An elderly Eye’eel woman kneels beside Rand and says "Yes...Yes, that's good. That is what you need to do." Rand does not recognize the voice. Rand says that he sees the answer, and that he asked the Aelfinn the wrong question. Rand says that to choose is our fate, and that without choice, you are a puppet.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Matrim Cauthon stands up after defeating Padan Fain. He looks up and tells the sun "You should come out more often. You have a pretty face." As Fain's body melts away, Mat briefly considers grabbing the Ruby-hilted dagger. He says that "For once, a gamble I don't want to touch." He picks up his hat, and the dice in his head stop.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin Eyebarra considers sleeping for a hundred days straight, but must find Faile first. The wolves say farewell, and fade into the Wolf Dream. Pairin walks through camp, He thinks of Rand, but no colors swirl in his head. He enters the tent where Damer Flinn is trying to heal Rand, now unconscious. Mworane Dawmodred whispers to Rand "You did well, Rand. You did well." Pairin greets Nine'eev and stands by Rand's side. He says that Elayne Trakand, Min Farshaw, and Aviendha should see him. Nine'eev tells Pairin that Igwayne al'Veer has died. Nine'eev leaves crying. Flinn says he has done everything he can for Rand. He tells Pairin that Rand and Moridin were found together. Pairin asks LAN Mandragoran about Faile.



Point of view: Loial.


Loial  searches for Mat. He asks a group of drunk maidens, who offer him oosquai. Loial says that he must get Mat's account of the battle. He looks in on a group of Eyes Sedai trying to convince Rhodell Ee'two'rahl'day to take the throne of Arad Doman. Loial checks on Rand. Nine'eev expresses that it is not fair that Rand is dying but Moridin is improving. Flinn says that Min, Elayne and Aviendha don't seem to care that Rand is close to death. Loial leaves the tent, thinking Mat has gone to the Field of Merrilor.



Point of view: Matrim Cauthon.


Mat arrives at the Shawn'chin camp and approaches Tuon. He points up and nightflowers explode above the camp. He calls them "The best bloody firework show in the history of my land or yours." Tuon tells Mat that she is with child and could kill Mat now, if she wanted. Mat asks her if she plays dice.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin continues to search for Faile. He is losing hope. He falls asleep from exhaustion.



Point of view: Moghedien.


Moghedien winces as she watches the nightflowers. She laments that The Dark One has fallen and all is lost. She then decides that this makes her the greatest of The Chosen. A collar closes around her neck and she screams "No! Not again!"



Point of view: Nine'eev al'Meera.


Nine'eev announces that Rand is dead. LAN comforts her. Nine'eev confronts Aviendha who is discussing her vision with the other Wise Ones. Aviendha tells her that Rand has woken from the dream, as we all must. Aviendha tells the other Wise Ones to prepare Rand's pyre.



Point of view: Pairin Eyebarra.


Pairin, in the wolf dream, searches for Faile. He revisits important places in his past, including Dumai's Wells and Malden. He hears a falcon cry, he shifts and finds Faile. He takes her to Nine'eev for Healing.



Point of view: Birgitte Silverbow.


Birgitte Silverbow remains after the other heroes have returned to The World of Dreams. She warns Elayne not to use the Horn of Valere to her own ends. Elayne says "Perhaps." Birgitte tells Elayne that she sent Olver away, to hide the Horn where no one would find it. Birgitte tells Elayne that she is being reborn now, somewhere in the world. They say goodbye and Birgitte drifts away.



Point of view: Tamlin al'Thor.


Tamlin al'Thor looks at the grass growing at Shay'ole Ghoul and asks himself "Is this your gift to us, son? A final one?" He lights a torch and approaches Rand's pyre. Tam mentions that he wanted to keep Rand's funeral small. Tam walks to Rand's bier, beside Thomdril Merrilin and Mworane. Tam lights the pyre with a reverent hand and thinks "You did well. My boy... you did so well."



Point of view: Min Farshaw.


Min stands at the front of the crowd. Tam withdraws and is embraced by Abell Cauthon. She tells Elayne and Aviendha that she saw this when she first met Rand. Elayne asks what is next. Aviendha says that now they "...make sure that everyone well and truly believes that he is gone." Min feels the Warder bond in her mind growing stronger.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand al'Thor, a shepherd from the Two Rivers, wakes in a dark tent by himself. He is no longer missing his hand and the pain in his side is gone, since he is now in Moridin's body. He finds Laman's sword, some cloths, and a bag of coins left by Alivia. This fulfills Min's viewing that "...She will help you die." Rand takes a horse and chuckles that he has gone from Dragon Reborn to horse thief. He looks at the funeral pyre where the crowd is singing a Borderlander funeral song. Rand sees Cadsuane Melaidhrin looking at him.



Point of view: Cadsuane Melaidhrin.


Cadsuane sees Rand, and decides that there is no need to continue watching the sham funeral. Syreen Asnobar, Yukiri, Lyrelle, and Rubinde propose that Cadsuane become the new Amyrlin Seat.



Point of view: Rand al'Thor.


Rand is relieved that Cadsuane did not reveal him. He pulls a pipe from his pocket. He tries to channel, but siedeen is not there. He cannot touch the True Power either. He thinks of the pipe being lit, and it is. He looks at Min, Elayne, and Aviendha and wonders which one will follow him first. He tries to pick one, but realizes that he is hopelessly in love with all three of them. Rand rides south, looking forward to just traveling for a change, without being chased or having to rule. As he leaves, a wind rises around him.



"The wind blew southward, through knotted forests, over shimmering plains and toward lands unexplored. This wind, it was not the ending. There are no endings, and never will be endings,  to the turning of the Wheel of Time."

But it was an ending.





